It's been a spectacular earning season
so far. The equity market is being
driven by corporate earnings.
>> You still got a little bit of upside.
We're still maximum overweight in
equities.
>> Short-term, it's a bit more
consolidation. We like the market
longer-term.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide.
starts right now. Coming into Thursday
with oil inching lower, the diplomatic
push happened to drive crude below
triple digits as powerful earnings are
sending stocks to fresh record highs.
The data is keeping Federal Reserve
officials firmly on the sidelines. More
data coming up later.
>> Look, this is a solid market. Yesterday,
we got the ADP print. Came in at the
hottest level, the greatest number of
jobs going back to January of 2025. At
8:30 a.m. Eastern, we get jobless
claims. Does it give that same read? Do
we get another record low in terms of
people who are filing to get benefits
for not having a job? Or do we see some
tick up? And this all, of course, comes
ahead of tomorrow's payrolls report.
What do we do with it? If it's really
strong, is that going to be a good
thing? Is that going to be a bad thing?
Most people seem to say that will just
keep this equity market ripping.
>> I think it's really impressive the Fed's
just about holding on to an easing bias.
Other central banks are hiking. Saw it
in Australia earlier this week. Saw it
in Norway earlier on this morning.
Europe seems to be heading in the same
direction, maybe as soon as June. And in
America, we've got better economic data,
really powerful earnings, and we're
holding on to an easing bias at the
Federal Reserve.
>> This is part of the reason why the
dollar is underperformed. This is part
of the reason why people have said,
ultimately, how much is this a political
decision versus something that is rooted
in fundamentals? Do we still have the
disinflationary tailwinds that so many
people were talking about? Norway hiked
interest rates. It was a surprise. Very
few people expected it, in part because
they saw wage price inflation. That was
a key aspect of that. If you start
seeing that in the United States, well,
that might force the Fed's hand.
>> Brent crude this morning, 99. WTI front
end of the futures curve around 93. This
from the journal. President Trump's
advisers increasingly worried that
Republicans will pay a political price
for spiking fuel costs. Will that grease
the wheels of the diplomatic effort in
the weeks to come?
>> Absolutely. And that's what we've been
talking about for weeks on this program.
Why do you think the president had Mike
Worth of Chevron and all the oil traders
over at the White House to discuss how
acute is the situation going to be the
next few months ahead of the midterm
elections. And it is likely why he is
rushing to try to get the Iranians to
agree to this one page memorandum when
it comes to the peace plan because he
needs the Strait of Hormuz open. He
needs the oil to continue. The fact of
the matter is though, as we wait for the
Iranians to respond, the Strait of
Hormuz is forever changed. And the
Iranians have complete control over now.
>> You sent me a note from RBC earlier on
this morning. Have we actually made
progress here or is this just a
ceasefire rebrand? The words of RBC are
for tonight. It's a way of saying,
essentially, the war is over, but we
haven't really changed the we haven't
moved the needle. We haven't moved the
dial. And guess what? What Helima Croft
is talking about is barrels are not
moving through the Strait of Hormuz. We
still haven't addressed what will
ultimately be a shortage as soon as
July.
>> As the economic fallout spreads from
Asia westward, it will likely become
more difficult for positive Axios
headlines to paper over the
unprecedented physical outage. Helima
Croft. And you know what? I saw a tweet
yesterday that was like, you know what?
If we just had Axios in 2007, maybe we
wouldn't have had a housing crisis.
>> avoided the whole thing. Axios is
getting some real real mud slung at
them, hey? For the record, I like Axios.
I I like the work going on there.
>> There is underpinning that a skepticism
about the placement and timing of some
of these missives. And I think that goes
to and I'm not going to talk about Axios
because, frankly, I'm glad there's a
reporter out there. It's quite
Ultimately, this is a market that feels
subject to all of the manipulation of
different officials from different sides
of the world who are trying to come in
and job on them. And people are getting
sick of it. So, that is the frustration
being channeled at one Axios reporter.
>> 30 to 45 seconds more on this. So, bear
with us. Whenever I see reports like
this, I've always looked at them the
same way. That is an effort to signal
from whoever is behind the messaging.
That is an effort to signal. And that's
always how I've read between the lines.
I don't look at the reporting and say,
"Oh, this must happen now because
so-and-so said this." I look at it as
saying, "You know what? Some
administration wants to signal that this
is where things are heading." Why might
they do that? And then give it thought
from that kind of perspective.
>> And the difficult aspect here, you're
absolutely right. And for the most part,
the market treats it as such. At the
same time, this isn't President Trump's
to signal alone. And that's part of the
problem because ultimately this is a
quagmire where you've got to get ships
going through there. It's one thing to
say it's open. It's another thing to
convince a ship operator that they're
not going to get shot at as they go
through the Strait of Hormuz.
>> Sterling sitting at 99, WTI at around
93. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Darius Dale of 42 Macro with stocks
on a record-breaking rally. It's what
Prasad of Cornell has trade tensions
rise between the US and Europe. And
O'Day of on why the Fed could end up
hiking interest rates next year. We
begin this hour with stocks holding at
record highs as optimism grows over an
end to the war. Darius Dale of 42 Macro
writing, "The 12-month outlook is
bullish. The next few months, however,
may prove volatile." Darius joins us now
for more. Darius, good morning. Good to
see you. Oh, great to see you, John.
Thanks for
>> Hey, welcome to the program as well.
What's going to be the source of that
volatility? Well, I think we're we're
not out of the woods yet as relates to
the Strait of Hormuz dynamic. And we
also have the return of crowded bull's
positioning across global financial
markets. So, if we get another Axios
headline that, you know, is leaking in
the wrong direction, then you can have a
little bit more volatility. But when you
take a medium-term view on the markets
and on the economy, things are about as
good as they've been in a really long
time. I'd say since early 2021. Let's
just stay on that. Look at the economic
data. Look at the earnings. How
impressive is it that we've got a
central bank that's still holding to an
easing bias.
Well, uh that's a totally separate
conversation, but the thing I'd say
about the Fed is the biggest mistake the
Fed can make this year is doing
anything.
This is economy that has accelerating
inflation. When you look at the good
inflation components that they care
about, this economy that has
accelerating bank credit growth. At the
same time, we have a productivity boom,
and we are in our view, we think we're
heading into a jobless recovery. So, on
the the push-pull dynamic there should
say the Fed should stay on hold. I think
that would be the markets would probably
not like the Fed doing anything in any
one direction because it would create
tension on the other side of the
mandate. It's not totally unrelated
though. The whole point is when you have
such robust growth to John's point, the
strongest as you were saying since 2021,
and then you have a Fed with an easing
bias, how much does that increase the
risk of an inflationary kind of impulse
that it creates a headwind that people
aren't really pricing in? Yeah, well, I
think we're already seeing the
inflationary impulse. If you look at for
instance, core PC inflation on a
three-month annualized basis, we're at
4.4%. Super core PC inflation, we're at
4.5%. So, we already have the
inflationary impulse, and so the best
thing the Fed can do right now is to
jawbone that away to the to the extent
possible. In our view, we think it's
going to go away because if you look at
the relationship between productivity
growth, we think we're in a 150 to 200
basis point acceleration in trend
productivity growth. That should knock
off about 40 to 50 basis points from
trend inflation, while at the same time
you have some very depressing components
in the labor market that are weighing on
wage inflation from a cyclical and
structural standpoint. The the real
inflation dynamic in the economy, when
we get past this inflation shock, should
be much lower in our opinion. You said
that there was this depressive factor
coming from the labor market. How would
this market treat a very hot labor
market report tomorrow? Let's say the
number of jobs created much above what
people had expected. Let's say wage
increases much more than people
expected. Yeah, I think what's going to
happen is the market's going to price in
more tightening in the short rate short
rates curve. And so, that's in my
opinion, I think that would be
an appropriate response from the market,
but the reality is we don't think that
dynamic sustainable. When when look at,
you know, for instance, uh core private
services payrolls, which lops off
healthcare, uh social services,
education, and government, basically
everything that the government is the
main consumer or the employer of, that
peaked 2 years ago.
2 years ago. And so, in our view, we
think this AI dynamic is real. I mean,
it's hard to to statistically test it,
but we think it's real. We think we've
never seen a trend like this uh with the
booming economy.
>> You think when it comes to AI that
actually it's going to help
international stocks over US stocks?
Yeah, I think it's going to help all the
stocks that have been left behind by the
mega-cap tech companies. And the reason
we say that is not because we're bearish
on the mega-cap tech companies, is that
we think that the transfer of that
technology
will create a convergence in
productivity, create a convergence in
margins, create a convergence in
ultimately in valuations with the stocks
that have been left behind from a
capital allocation standpoint.
>> When will we see that?
I think it's all it's already ongoing. I
mean, the trade started a year and a
half ago. Uh so, I think that trade I
mean, we obviously took a pause in the
context of this, you know, Strait of
Hormuz dynamic because that that's a
cyclical headwind in the economy. Once
we open the Strait of Hormuz and those
barrels of petroleum products are
flowing, I think the market's going to
start to look around and say, "Hey, we
have a lot of crowded bullish
positioning here. We don't have any
crowded bullish positioning here, but
we're going to see a convergence in the
in the operating
>> Just sit on that just for a moment. The
biggest risk to the tech rally might be
a reopening of the strait. Yeah, well,
on a relative basis. I don't think
you're going to sell tech stocks on
that, but I think on a relative basis,
yeah. Can we just finish on the capex
boom from big tech? Do you think that is
a bubble? How do you think about the
capex intentions from a handful of
companies? Well, look, I
I'm not smart enough to determine if it
is or is not a bubble, but I will say a
very better much better investors than I
have have said when something doubles in
3 years and we obviously seeing a double
in the AI capex in 1 year, it's a
bubble. And so, the the key takeaway is
that whenever you have these historical
capex bubbles, you go back to the
railroad bubble, the consumer durable
goods bubble, the end and the IT capex
bubble, they tend to end in secular bear
markets. So, I think that's where we're
headed longer term, but I don't think
that's a medium-term risk. What do you
do with chips in the meantime? Seems to
be a question I get a lot we've seen in
massive rally. Something that stuck out
for me this week was a comment from
Barclays.
>> Mhm. We caught up with Mr. Altman over
there and he said we need to focus on
where we are, not how we got here. How
we got here was super fast vicious
rally. Where are we now? The valuation,
what is the price we're paying up for
some of these chip stories? Yeah, I mean
it's a Looney Tunes price, but again at
twice as silly price it's not twice as
silly, right? I think our friend David
Einhorn said that a while back in a
meeting. So,
the thing I just say on the chip stocks
is that that that that you you have to
take profits and start to look at
businesses that are going to have a
faster convergence in their in their
profitability. These are lower
comparative base businesses from the
perspective of margins from the
perspective of earnings. So, any you
transfer that technology, we're going to
have a faster rate of change in their
growth rates and that in our opinion
that's a durable catalyst. So, just pick
them out. What sectors are you focused
on right now? I mean financials are the
obvious component.
>> The banks.
>> The banks, yeah. The the banks, I mean
there's so much more, I mean it's very
dark, but
the banks have a lot of, you know,
employee compensation as a percentage of
their total total revenue. You're not
expecting job cuts? I
I I mean
it's the underperforming banks will cut
jobs. Underperforming companies will cut
jobs, but the best performing companies
will just stop hiring and we've seen
that in the labor market. Little higher,
little higher. Attrition. Darius, it's
good to see you. Thank you, sir. Thank
you very much. Thanks for being here.
Darius Dale that 42 macro. Not a great
start to the morning if you're at a bank
listening to this program.
>> This has been an ongoing fear and we've
actually seen the industry shrink. If
you take a look, the number of jobs have
been contracting over some time, but
right now that to me is the key
question. How quickly this goes. Let's
get an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief. Yohai
Elam has more. Hey Yohai. Hey John.
The US is waiting on Iran to respond to
its proposal to end the war. The Trump
administration presenting a one-page
memorandum of understanding to Iran that
would reopen the Strait of Hormuz and
lift the American blockade on Iranian
ports. Negotiations over Iran's nuclear
program will come at a later date.
Israel carrying out an attack in the
suburbs of Beirut. Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu saying Israeli forces
were targeting one of Hezbollah's senior
military commanders. Tehran has
threatened to withdraw from the
ceasefire if Israel keeps up its attacks
in Lebanon.
And the EU failing to finalize a trade
deal with the US during overnight talks.
President Trump threatening to increase
duties on EU cars and trucks if the
block does not make substantial progress
on a deal. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yohai later this hour. Up next
on the program, declaring victory once
again.
They want to make a deal badly. And
we'll see if we get there. Their leaders
are all dead. So, I think we won. Iran
cannot have a nuclear weapon, and they
won't. And they've agreed to that. Up
next, we'll catch up with Colonel Wayne
Sanders of Bloomberg Intelligence live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
More data coming up later this morning,
8:30 Eastern time, jobless claims in
America at multi-decade lows. Look out
for that. The labor market data has been
okay. Heading into payrolls tomorrow
morning. And we get some more Fed speak,
Mary Daly of San Francisco coming up a
little bit later. We'll join her on
Bloomberg TV with Michael McKee. So,
looking forward to that conversation.
From what we've heard so far from
Chicago, from St. Louis, the regional
Fed presidents, these guys are not in a
rush to cut interest rates. They're
concerned about inflation, and a lot of
people in markets are seeing what
they're seeing and agree with them. I
mean, the idea that you just pointed out
that the Norwegian Central Bank just
hiked rates, which was a huge surprise
to economists, show just where the
balance
is overseas. In the United States, if
you get a hot labor market print, how
much more difficult does it make it for
the Fed to retain that easing bias?
>> It's amazing we even have one. I think
it's amazing we even have one. They're
struggling with it right now. That's
clear, and that was clear from the
dissent.
>> It goes for the communication from
Norway and their word about inflation
being above target for the last 4 years.
Try five.
Right? Anti-easing bias at the Federal
Reserve.
>> Well, and you have inflation moving in
the wrong direction. So, the rate of
change is not on our side, and that is
giving some people some pause in
markets. At the same time, you're not
seeing break-even rates surge higher.
They're creeping higher. At what point
does it become a concern for the Fed?
>> Features this morning just about
unchanged coming into Thursday morning
at all-time highs driven by some really
powerful earnings. It's not just AMD. As
Lisa pointed out yesterday, the Walt
Disney Company, Uber, just speaks to a
consumer that's hanging in there and
still spending. Will this help, this
move in crude? Below triple digits this
morning on Brent, down to 99, down by
2%. WTI at breaker 93, down by 2% also.
Sneak peek of the 80s in yesterday's
session, big move lower at one point
much lower than where we are right now.
Under Savannah's this morning declaring
victory once again.
No, they want to make a deal badly.
And we'll see if we get there. If we get
there, they can't have nuclear weapons,
you know, it's very simple. But what's
not to submit? Their leaders are all
dead. So, I think we won. Iran cannot
have a nuclear weapon, and they won't.
And they've agreed to that among other
things. So, here's the latest this
morning. The US is awaiting Iran's
response to the latest proposal to end
the war and reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kandel joins us now
from Washington for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, person
familiar with the matter tells us that
Iran is expected to respond via
Pakistani mediators within potentially
the next day as President Trump
maintains that a deal will get done. If
agreed to, this one-page memorandum of
understanding would look to gradually
reopen the Strait of Hormuz with the US
lifting its naval blockade, which at
this point is still very much in place.
In fact, just yesterday, CENTCOM
confirmed that the US military had
disabled another Iranian flagged oil
tanker that was trying to transit
through the Gulf of Oman. Our reporting
also indicates that there are active
discussions about a potential moratorium
on Iran's uranium enrichment
capabilities, though at least publicly,
Iranian officials have maintained that
there will be no concessions related to
its nuclear program. And that distance
between the two sides is proving
problematic. We know for a longer-term
deal, though the US has floated
sanctions relief as part of any
potential agreement. And new this
morning, Bloomberg News is now reporting
that China's financial regulator has
advised its banks to temporarily suspend
new loans to refiners that have been
recently sanctioned by the US over ties
to Iranian oil in apparent reversal from
guidance that had just been issued last
week. But John, as you well know,
President Trump is, of course, facing
pressure when it comes to domestic
policy, but also when it comes to
foreign policy in terms of our
interactions with other countries around
the world, and he gets ready to move to
visit Beijing just next week on May
14th.
>> Tana, thank you. Tana Kendal down in
Washington, D.C. On the illusion of
progress. You escalate one week, you
de-escalate the next week. Ultimately,
you make no progress at all, but it
looks like you've made progress heading
into talks.
>> So, this is where the market seems to
be, and this is where Helima Croft comes
into play, and this is where some of the
people who are watching the molecules,
not transport, and suddenly get worked
down in the inventories, they're getting
worried. And at what point does you
start to see the shortages come to pass?
There is a time frame here. You can't do
this forever, and I think that's the big
takeaway.
>> not forever at the moment, isn't it?
>> this is such a exhausting, frustrating
news cycle. It's on, off, on, off. What
are we doing?
>> We're in month three. I'm kind of losing
track of things. Whatever this is. It's
really the never-ending week. Joining us
now to discuss Colonel Wesley Martin,
senior defense research analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Colonel, welcome
to the program. If we do open up a
period of talks, 30 days, whatever it
might be, how difficult and how much
work goes into negotiating the nuclear
program in Iran?
Well, I think that you have a lot of
issues between inspections that you have
to figure out, removal and transfer of
nuclear dust material, the yellow cake,
if you will. There are quite a few
pieces that require a lot of
on-the-ground
uh
you know, determinations, right? You
have You can't do it from where we're
doing it right now, right? So, the
inspections piece do have to open back
up. What that transfer actually looks
like, what infrastructure is left.
There's quite a few pieces of that that
go into play just on the nuclear side.
And then obviously the piece that's also
going to still be tied to that is still
going to be missile-related in terms of
a delivery mechanism for any type of
progress as well, cuz I know that's big
on President Trump's agenda. Can the
United States end the blockade before
they make headway on any of these
important issues, which are their red
lines?
You know, they they could, but the
problem is is it's probably one of the
biggest levers right now because as
you've seen from an existential threat
perspective, the attacks aren't really
the
the big threat from the US anymore.
We've taken out the infrastructure, the
military pieces, which were remaining
piece of the military objective side of
the house. They've done that and
obviously there are still more military
targets they could if they needed to,
but in terms of trying to create a
center of gravity analysis and trying to
look at where you can
apply the most pressure and leverage,
it's it's still going with the blockade.
So, I think that's the one of the
biggest chips to say, "Hey, look, we'll
we'll let this up as soon as you guys
sign this this memo this memorandum.
We've got a 30-day negotiation window
that would help at least provide some
additional formality in there." So, when
it comes to potentially this deal, the
United States would get what
immediately? Just the Strait of Hormuz
being open?
Yeah, gradually reopening of the uh
Strait of Hormuz, right? Additional
guarantees from from Iran that there
aren't going to be uh
uh ties in there. They're going to also
have to then look at some type of phased
agreement for the easing of the US
sanctions, I think. So, it's when I say
immediate, it's going to be starting to
put that pen to paper in terms of what
that deal specifically looks for. Uh the
Iranian moratorium on uranium
enrichment, I think is very easy to
start. It's much more difficult to
actually come in and uh and put it into
play. But then also the immediate
ceasefire and de-escalation measures uh
are something that immediately have to
start. That goes with the IRGC fast boat
attacks in the area, as well as uh as
well as anything that the US may do in
response. Colonel Sanders, do we have a
sense of what the UAE and Saudi Arabia
and Qatar's involvement in all of these
discussions are?
I don't have what their what their
part for discussions is, but I do know
that they are part of the 50-country uh
coalition, if you will, that uh France
and the UK are spearheading to try and
figure out ways to passage and open this
up, right? They had their summit back in
April. UAE was a part of that as one of
the non-European company or countries
along with New Zealand, Australia,
Japan, and South Korea. Uh so, you are
looking for I I joke around and I call
it the Strait of Hormuz operational
coalition, the shock states. Uh but if
they were to actually be able to do
that, this is the first time we actually
see France taking the Charles de Charles
de Gaulle aircraft carrier and their
carrier set with a couple of frigates,
as well as escort ships from Italy and
Netherlands, actually starting to make
their way down to the Red Sea and to the
Gulf of Aden, uh which may actually
signal that some of the stuff that they
planned out in April may be actually
starting to move. Colonel Sanders, uh
how much is this kind of international
coalition going to achieve the ultimate
goal of reopening it? And I'm talking
about those 50 countries, as well as say
Chinese influence that could emerge
after the summit between Xi Jinping and
President Trump.
Well, I think the biggest thing is this
coalition is very much defensive in
nature. I think it's one of the biggest
reasons why you saw it change from
military operation Epic Fury into
defensive project freedom. They changed
the name for a reason. It's to start
that de-escalation process. It's to
start trying to actually give President
Trump some off-ramps, too, in terms of,
"Hey, I'm opening it up, right?" You
heard Secretary Heggseth as well talk
about that, where he is looking for
additional help from allies in that
region to, once again, keep it defensive
in nature. It's an escort mission. It is
not meant to be any type of military
operation when you enter in these these
coalitions. So, it's allowed to say,
"Hey, look, we've done our military
portion. The offense is done. The
defense is in place right now with the
blockade." And if you use an off
football analogy, you've got your
offense, your defense, now your special
teams. The special teams is really
looking at, "What is that long-term
solution with this coalition?" Well,
when do you think it's going to restart
in terms of Project Freedom? Cuz the
president put it on pause.
Yeah, he put it on pause on Tuesday, and
I think it's really coming down probably
the next 24 hours for this this
memorandum deal. I know he's still
threatening strikes. I don't think the
strikes piece really plays a part, but I
do think that the blockade would stay in
place, and and that part could
potentially open back up. I don't think
the US wins anything by jumping back
into a kinetic engagement at this time.
Colonel, was going to say you thank you.
Certainly no one wants to resume
hostilities. Colonel Wayne Sanders there
of BlinqBlinq Intelligence on the
situation in the Middle East. Now, I'll
give you a choice. We can talk about
this, or we can talk about a virus on a
ship.
Because I'm committed to not covering
the virus on the ship at the moment.
>> Fully committed.
>> Okay, but you are I mean, okay, so
clearly we're about to cover the virus
on the ship. And I will just note, last
night the discussion at home did shift
from the war in Iran to hantavirus.
>> Oh, that's what came up at home. Okay.
>> Mom, how scared should we be? Are we
going to enter another pandemic? I had
to sit there, and we looked at the
actual transmission mechanism of
hantavirus. And then my oldest son said,
"Why does it always happen on cruises?"
And I said, "Go talk to Jonathan
Farrell." That's why I I on cruises.
It's a long list of reasons why I don't
go on cruises. Hantaviruses are among
them. The doomers over at Casa Bruma
have changed focus. Have you noticed
that? They've moved on. They've moved on
quickly. To AI and to viruses. I'm still
on the street, but yeah. Are you
committed to not covering the story,
too? I'm committed. Committed. I see I
see a lot of that kind of coverage. You
don't want to go back there. I'm muting
tweets. I don't want I just don't want
to see it. I refuse to believe.
>> I do think though there is a linkage
here.
Bear with me. But this is actually at
home the discussion that I directed,
which is You've got some time. Go for
it. It's ultimately people are worried
about the next supply shock. Is it going
to come from another pandemic? Is it
going to become from you're trying not
to laugh?
>> We're already in a supply shock.
>> Exactly. So it's sort of this idea of
could we enter another kind of shutdown,
which is what the kids are scared of.
They don't want to enter another
lockdown cuz it was really traumatizing.
>> Have you told them about dollar cost
averaging? Just encourage them to sort
of allocate capital into the market on a
regular basis. Stocks are at all-time
highs. We've actually discussed this and
this question of business cycles and
stocks and Well, it's Well, yeah. This
is all part of the discussion. Okay,
good.
Good. We're making some progress.
>> Good luck with the AP macro test.
Best of luck. Is that today?
Best of luck. AP was brutal. But they
were focused on something else, clearly.
Okay.
I know who we're talking about and I
know they're going to excel anyway, so
Maybe. No worries there whatsoever. Up
next, Ishwar Prasad of Cornell as the EU
fails to agree to US trade terms.
This from Julian Emanuel over at
Evercore just moments ago seeing scope
for further tech-led upside on the S&P
500 to 7750
and as high as 9,000. His words, "Should
the public's animal spirits truly move
into higher gear?" He's not wrong and
this is what we're hearing from other
people. And what would cause the public
to move into high gear? What if the Fed
cut rates in the face of an otherwise
strong economy with the tech investment
going gangbusters? Could that be enough
to unleash those animal spirits?
>> There we go. Bramo's bullish. Well, not
bullish cuz actually that then it just
>> a bummer. Then it's a bummer. Got it.
Okay. So, it just accelerates. All
right. Place them up to speed. Equity
futures right now in the S&P 500
positive by 1/10 of 1% all-time highs on
the Nasdaq just about unchanged in the
commodity market. 3 days of losses for
crude. We're down by another 2% this
morning. 98 handle on Brent 92 on WTI.
We've seen a big drop-off in the last 24
hours.
>> Absolutely. It's it's pretty surprising
that both Brent and WTI are below $100 a
barrel. This is where the administration
wanted to keep WTI because they wanted
to try to keep a lid on of course what's
going on in gasoline. Even if the Strait
of Hormuz though is open. Say Iran, you
know, in the next 24 hours decides, yes,
we're going to accept this memorandum.
We're going to start opening up the
Strait of Hormuz. It is going to take
weeks and months for flows to start
acting as they were previously.
>> So, now though good news for the bond
market. That's for sure. But because at
one point in the last week, 10s new
highs for the year on a closing basis.
30s north of 5%. We're not far away, but
we're pulling back. That's notable.
We're down two basis points at the front
end of the curve. 2s at about 3.85.
>> People are pricing out any kind of
chance of a rate hike despite the fact
that you're seeing that type of response
function from central banks in Norway
and in Australia. Key question here, is
there enough strength in the underlying
economy to keep yields at this level or
even potentially higher even if there is
some sort of resolution to the Strait of
Hormuz the situation there. That is
where the data that comes into play.
That is where jobless claims come into
play today. Tomorrow, the nonfarm
payrolls report. If it is hotter than
expected, what does this market do with
it?
>> It's not the base case, but it's a risk.
And I think that's why you've got the
front end of the yield curve on 2s.
Yields trading slightly above where Fed
funds are right now.
That just shows the market pricing in
just a little bit of risk. Yeah, you can
see that just heading into next year and
about mid-year next year 2027. People
are starting to marginally price in the
idea of a rate hike. And actually at the
end of this year, or at the end of next
year, you could end up with yields
slightly higher. Again, people have no
clue. Trying to game this out is like a
game of whack-a-mole, especially given
that we don't have a sense of what the
guiding light will be for the next Fed
chair.
>> We'll play that game in 10 minutes time.
It's going to be fun. Zell Davis
joins the program to play whack-a-mole
on the bond market and why we might hike
interest rates next year. Look out for
that in just a moment. As we count you
down to the open in about 3 hours away,
let's get you some morning movers.
Yahaira has more. Hi, Yahaira. Hi, John.
We start with the chip designer Arm.
Shares are falling 6.8% after it warned
of weakness in the smartphone market.
This is still a key source of revenue
for Arm, even as it sees more money
coming in from the hyperscalers.
Executive saying that the memory crunch
is hitting the lower end of the market,
something we've heard from Qualcomm. As
this memory squeeze quickly becomes a
defining theme of this earning season
for the chip makers. Uh meanwhile, a
quite the warning from the appliance
maker Whirlpool. Shares are plunging 16
and 1/2% in the premarket after the
company said the war in Iran is causing
a recession-level
downturn for the industry. So, it's
cut its profit outlook for the year,
suspended its dividend, and said that
more and that said that price hikes are
coming for its refrigerators and its
washing machines. And another company
warning that the Iran war is hitting its
business is Snap. Shares are falling
nearly 10% in the premarket after it
warned that the war is hitting its
advertising business. But, investors
might be more focused on this. Snap
saying that it has ended its AI
partnership with Perplexity, raising
fresh questions around its AI strategy
moving forward. John. Yahaira, thank
you. Didn't see it Meta.
Didn't see it at Alphabet.
It's a common complaint, isn't it? I
mean, I'm sorry. When I hear of Snap of
all companies, I don't think supply
chain disruption or some sort of Middle
East influence, but you know, to each
his own. Holding back ad revenue. It's
just hard to see it elsewhere right now.
>> You know, it's just such a trendy thing.
It's either like snap, but people the
kids they move quick. Foreign exchange,
the weather. Yeah. Right, there's always
something every quarter.
>> Yeah, it's true, but people aren't
snapping as much. Oh, is that what's
happening?
>> Yeah, they're they're moving to other
venues. We're just getting a real-time
update on Casa Bramo every single second
now.
They're not snapping. They're pulling
back on it.
>> literally the audience, right? It's
people who wanted things to disappear
because they didn't want their parents
to find them. Got it.
>> or politicians, but we'll leave we'll
leave that one there. I'm pleased with
gauging what's going on here. Thank you,
Bramo.
What does Casa Bramo I think about
interest rates? We'll find out in the
next segment.
There are some heated opinions.
>> I'll bet there is. And I read out this
morning, President Donald Trump
declaring victory once again in the war
with Iran, signaling a deal could be
finalized in a week. The president also
claiming Tehran has agreed that it
cannot have a nuclear weapon. Elsewhere,
China advising banks to temporarily
suspend new loans to five US-sanctioned
refiners over ties to Iranian crude.
Washington warning banks of secondary
sanctions if they support Chinese
private refiners buying oil from Tehran.
And finally, the EU failing to finalize
a US trade deal in overnight talks. The
Trump administration threatening fresh
tariffs.
The EU has had a lot of time, many many
months to comply with their tariff
commitments and their commitments on
non-tariff barriers, and that hasn't
materialized yet. We have to have hard
conversations with the Europeans. I'm
not setting a hard date on this. My view
is it's already past due, frankly. The
White House set to increase levies on EU
autos to 25% if a deal isn't reached
soon. I don't know what's going on
between Europe and the US right now.
They're just going back and forth, and
it seems like tensions are rising, but
they're speaking past each other, at
least in rhetoric that we're seeing.
Europe saying we still have time to
discuss this. The US saying, "Are you
kidding me?" And that pressure kind of
building with a real issue of where does
this alliance go, both economically and
frankly militarily as we hear about
things going on with NATO. Brussels is
trying to add amendments to this. It has
been working through a process. For the
president, it's been way too slow. And
the US partially has implemented their
part of the deal. The Europeans have
not. So I believe that this truth came
in basically in essence of just a stick.
Please, we need to nudge you along,
start implementing it. It shouldn't take
this It shouldn't take too long. What's
interesting though is James and Greer
yesterday, the USTR ambassador, would
not put a date on it. So it does
obviously seem like they want to keep
the window open and they just want to
nudge them along. But I was talking to
Jenny Leonard, great reporter in
Frankfurt, and she says, "How much does
that have to do with just with Germany?"
Because it was autos that the president
threatened. That's to Germany. Of
course, we just removed troops from
Germany.
And this all comes after Friedrich Merz
said that the president is being
humiliated when it comes to war in Iraq.
>> There's been tension with Germany, not
just in the president's second term, but
in the president's first term as well.
This has been building and building and
building. And at what point does Europe
come to some sort of resolution around
the animosity with one country? It just
pushes the point. Europe is a bifurcated
or trifected. It's a It's a fractured a
continent right now. How do they come to
some sort of agreement as a unity with
the United States? That has been the
perennial issue and it's increasingly in
focus right now. And to Meloni
who's meeting with Secretary Blinken, I
believe, today. Right, cuz he's going on
to see the Pope.
>> The Italians seem to have a role here
just to bring down the temperature just
a bit. Yes, to bring down the
temperature potentially. I mean, it's
the age-old question when you call
Europe, who are you calling? Who's
picking up the phone? Who do you want to
call? Meloni at the moment seems to be
the more exciting person to call out
from Europe.
>> For this White House?
>> American, yes. For this White House,
certainly it is Giorgia Meloni. I would
say for the Biden administration, it was
Ursula von der Leyen. But this is the
problem to the really fractured
environment in Europe.
>> Bottom of the list is the Spanish for a
range of reasons. For both parties.
>> Yes, with without a doubt. Joining us
now to discuss not that, but the broader
trade arrangement at the moment is this
one for us, the professor of trade
policy and economics at Cornell
University and senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution. Professor, it's
good to see you, sir. What is it about
this backdrop, the world that we live
in, that makes us so prone to supply
shock after supply shock after supply
shock?
As I pointed out in my recent book, the
doom loop, we are stuck in this
situation where there are no clear
balancing forces where typically one
would think about economics like trade
relationships is a positive-sum game
that offsets all the disruptions in
geopolitics, but now rather than
offsetting each other, they're feeding
off each other and the US-European
relationship is a perfect example of
this. I mean, these are long-standing
allies, they have a very strong economic
relationship, but now the dynamics are
working in a very negative direction.
And Europe in particular is in a very
vulnerable position right now. They're
very dependent on energy imports and
they're also very dependent on exports,
especially if you think about the core
European economies like Germany. They
rely on exports a great deal for their
growth. So, the US sees a point of
vulnerability here and normally you
would think that again these are allies
who would come together in terms of
dealing with issues like the Iran war,
but there's been a separation even in
terms of the geopolitical relationship.
Europe doesn't quite see the the need
for the war quite the way the US does
and that has led to a fracturing of both
the economic and geopolitical
relationship. So, I think these are
really feeding off each other in a very
negative way even among the closest of
allies.
>> Our mutual friend Mohamed El-Erian used
to talk about the fence sitters. I
remember a piece he published years ago.
Europe is for me has been a fence sitter
that it wants the security umbrella of
the Americans, it wants the economic
exposure to the Chinese economy and now
it might have to make a decision. How
hard is it to make that choice? It's
going to be very difficult. As you were
pointing out, Lisa, you know, Germany is
very dependent on
exports, auto exports in particular and
the concern right now for the core
European economies which are really
hurting even more than the periphery
economies like Spain, is that they're
very exposed to US tariffs on the one
side and to Chinese exports on the other
side. China is running the board when it
comes to manufacturing from very low
wage, low tech manufacturing to very
high tech manufacturing for cars,
industrial equipment and so on, items
where Germany used to have a very strong
competitive advantage. Um and what
happens in Germany, of course, matters a
great deal for the Eurozone. But, there
is, as you pointed out, a bi- furcation
of fragmentation of interests among the
main European countries. You know,
Germany in particular and some of the
other core economies like France and
Europe see things one way, but the
periphery economies see things quite the
other way. So, for Germany, it's very
important to maintain external
competitiveness both within the Eurozone
and outside the Eurozone, but they are
facing pretty significant problems in
terms of domestic labor markets, in
terms of the fiscal problem, while the
periphery economies seem to be doing a
lot better. So, for the periphery
economies at the moment, there is some
advantage to maintaining a more cordial
relationship with the US, but for
Germany, the tariffs can really hurt.
And the White House is really going for
the jugular here. I think they're
pointing out the auto tariffs are really
going to hurt Germany at a time when
they're very vulnerable to Chinese
exports.
Um but, the question is whether Europe
understands that it still has some
pretty strong cards to play. Um but,
they need to come together. And this has
been the problem for Europe and the lack
of political and economic cohesion.
Unless they get their act together in
terms of their projecting their power on
the world stage, in terms of increasing
the Euro's dominance in international
finance, we're not going anywhere. The
way you describe it, it sounds like a
mess. The way that everybody describes
it, it seems like things are getting
going from bad to worse when it comes to
the prospects for the European
continent. And yet, the Euro is
significantly stronger today than it was
a year ago. Why haven't you seen this
transmitted? I'm talking about the euro
versus the dollar. Why haven't you seen
this transmitted to the currency the way
so many people would have predict? Yeah,
that's a great question. Now, we're in a
world where there are two factors that
drive currency values. One is related to
macroeconomic fundamentals, what happens
to economic growth, what happens to
interest rates, and so on. And the
second is fear.
Countries around the world looking for a
safe place to put their money. This is
true for private investors, central
banks as well. And as you may have
heard, there is a great deal of desire
to diversify away from the dollar. And
if you're trying to diversify away from
the dollar, you know, the euro is one
potential contender. Now, the reality is
that the eurozone has a lot of
weaknesses, and the euro has not lived
up to its original promise when the euro
was created in 1999. There was a hope
that it might actually a rival the
dollar. For a few years, it looked like
it might
move in that direction, but it's faded
away. But I think this desire for
diversification is leading to some safe
haven inflows into the euro. And also
there is the issue about interest rate
configurations. I mean, you've had a
discussion about what might happen to
interest rates in the US, but there is
the prospect that no matter the
underlying strength of the economy, the
political pressures might lead our next
Fed chair
to at least prioritize, you know, um
or at least shift the balance somewhat
towards a rate hike a rate cut rather
than a rate hike. And that very
prospect, I think, can lead to interest
rate differentials or expected interest
rate differentials moving a particular
way that leads to strengthen other
currencies other than the dollar. I
mean, the dollar did strengthen when the
Iran war started, fear, and now it's
come back down, macro. Diversification
that was not displacement. Can anyone
displace the dollar?
Not quite. You know, I had a piece
recently where I argued that, you know,
dollar dominance is something that the
rest of the world hates, but dollar
dominance is everybody else's fault.
You know, essentially what the rest of
the world could do is get its act
together. You know, Europe could get its
act together, create a more cohesive
economic zone, have more political
cohesion that would strengthen the euro.
China could get its act together in
terms of reducing capital controls,
improving its institutional frameworks,
thereby enduring engendering the trust
of foreign investors. But if you look
around the world, this is not happening.
Countries like Japan and the United
Kingdom which used to provide strong
reserve currencies are TLC words list a
mess.
So there really isn't very much out
there and at the moment we are facing a
situation where because of volatility in
international markets, paradoxically
caused by the US itself, everybody wants
a place to hide.
So the talk of diversification is very
strong out there. Every central bank,
every investor would like
diversification. If you're a private
investor, you know, with a few billion
dollars or tens of billion dollars to
throw around, there are good
alternatives. Gold maybe. If you're a
central bank, it's pretty hard to find a
place to hide. Professor, always an
education. Thanks for being here, we
appreciate it. My pleasure.
>> Thank you very much. It's what percent
there of Cornell University and the
author, let's sell some books, of the
Doom Loop. Very cool. Thank you,
Professor, appreciate it. Let's get an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohai has more. Hey,
Yohai. Hi, John.
China is asking its largest lenders to
temporarily suspend new loans to five
refineries recently sanctioned by the US
over ties to Iranian oil. The move
contrasts notice from from four days ago
instructing companies to disregard US
sanctions.
Meanwhile, shares of Shell are falling
more than 2% in London trading. The
company saying its profits surged in the
first quarter as the Iran war boosted
oil prices and trading, but it warned it
expects second quarter production to
decrease as a result of the closure of
the Strait of Hormuz.
And Germany's foreign minister telling
Bloomberg News the tensions between
Chancellor Merkel and President Trump
are a misunderstanding.
It is the attempt of Iran to humiliate
the American president. And of course
that is a risk that some international
of the international observers could
see it like this.
He also said Berlin supports the US's
demand that Iran does not obtain nuclear
weapons. That's your Bloomberg brief top
It was a diplomatic clean up on aisle
three, right? Seriously.
>> Seriously. What? So they're not
humiliating the president of the United
States, it's their intent, their wish
to.
>> a risk.
>> It's a risk.
>> It's a risk. It's not what he actually
said. It's a risk.
>> Wow. Up next on the program, searching
for clarity.
Before the productivity has arrived, you
can easily overheat the economy and it's
not at all obvious that
the Fed would need to lower rates in
that case. They might need to to raise
the rates. Oh, Davis, is going to
join us next to talk about potential for
interest rate hikes. That conversation
just around the corner.
Stocks all-time highs looking to add to
them. We're up by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. On the Nasdaq up by 0.07.
In the bond market, back in a way
from the highs of the year. Two's at
385, ten's at 433.
Under Savannah's this morning, searching
for clarity.
If
the productivity growth miracle is
happening in an unexpected way,
then it will mean lower inflation, and I
think it means
rates could go down. Before the
productivity has arrived, you can easily
overheat the economy in the here and
now, and it's not at all obvious that
the Fed would need to lower rates in
that case. They might need to to raise
the rates in in that case. So, here's
the latest this morning, uncertainty
over inflation and productivity clouding
the outlook for monetary policy. Earl
Davis of writing, "We place a higher
probability of a 2027 hike than an
ease." I'll join us now for more. Uh
welcome to the program. Before we start
hiking, we've got to drop an easing
bias. And according to a headline just
dropping across the Bloomberg terminal,
one other Fed president actually
supported the three who dissented
against the language of the statement at
last week's meeting. How close do you
think we are to dropping that easing
bias?
Uh probably a solid two meetings away.
Um at least I think the next meeting
will maintain the bias, but we're close.
Do you see where the tides are going?
Um and what's interesting, like in
regards to the inflation uh discussion
and using your Whac-A-Mole analogy,
we've been having an outstanding year
across our funds, especially our
strategic bond fund. And the reason why
we're having that is that we're whacking
at the hole before the mole's there.
We're not whacking at the mole. We end
up hitting the mole in the head. So, the
hole that we're looking at now, uh where
the mole's not yet there, is inflation.
We believe the inflation genie has been
let out of the bottle. Not just because
as as you've discussed the supply shock,
um we also have the second order of that
hitting, which will come through in
food. You'll see it in chips and
technology because of helium
um and the like. But, we also have So,
that's what you call uh cost-push
inflation. But, now, based off the last
clip that we've seen, we believe we're
going to have demand-pull inflation as
well, too. And the reason why we're
going to have demand-pull is growth has
been especially strong, surprisingly
strong this year, and will get stronger
because of the wealth effect. It's not
just a US wealth effect, it's a global
wealth effect. So, when you have
demand pull and supply shock, you know
what that is? That's COVID redux. Supply
shock, demand pull because of all the
money in the economy. So, we don't
believe
hikes are on the table for 2026.
Definitely on the table for 2027, and
not only that, I don't believe that the
discussion will be 25 basis point hikes
just because they'll be so far behind
the 2026 curve. You're going to be
talking 50-plus hikes depending on where
inflation is at that time. And because
of that,
right now we're positioned underweight
duration, and we're selling more as we
get closer to 4.25. We're overweight
credit because the growth outlook is
good, which means your default
probabilities don't get tighter, but we
are looking to lighten up on our
overweight of credit right now. Uh let's
just sit on the underweight duration
story. I just want to get an idea from
you as the way you think yields might go
through next year. It's an interesting
theory, I just want to explore it
further. If you've got them hiking and
maybe by more than 25 basis points in
2027, what kind of levels numbers are
you thinking about?
So, what's interesting, and we could
discuss in terms of this year, which
applies to next year. Our theory this
year was that yields will remain in the
range of 2025 10-year Treasuries, which
was 390 to 480. We were So, 435 is the
midpoint. Anything below 435 we're
underweight, and the more it goes
through 435, the more underweight we go,
and vice versa. We're not buyers at
above 435 until 450 to cover the short,
and then we will start going long. We
will have a disciplined process start
going long. We think 480 holds, but
there's a definite possibility we hit 5%
not next year, this year.
But we like being very overweight at
those levels. The math and the of fixed
income and owning 10-year, call it the
Bloomberg
Global Bloomberg Agg, US Agg, the math
gives you a lot of protection for
another 100 basis points of hike. So, if
you buy at 5%, you probably have an
active manager has 6% yield on their
portfolio, you have 100 basis points of
protection for additional hikes below
beyond that. And that's where we like
owning bonds. We like owning them
towards 480, and we like owning them
towards 5%. We believe QE will come into
play if we hit 5%, which gives you
protection on the first time of being
overweight duration. Can you lean into
that, Earl, just a little bit? How do
you see the Kevin Warsh Fed
handling a situation where the market's
pushing back on rate cuts, but expec-
expecting intervention on the long end?
Yeah, um
I pushed upon that a little bit in
regards the longer they wait for hikes,
the more they're going to have to hike.
So, it's going to make their job very
difficult. Also, you have the Treasury
versus the Fed, although they will
should be hand in glove with Warsh
coming in.
Um
don't think it has an effect, cuz the
reason why the Fed will have to hike and
hike probably a lot more than the market
thinks is inflation expectations. One of
the things of note recently on the
recent sell-off, we saw 10-year US
break-evens go above 250. They touched
like 252, 253. They're now at 244. The
last year hike high was 245.
This is why we believe the inflation
genie's out of the bottle. It's It's not
yet the thing they're focused on, but it
is the thing that the market will focus
on.
Uh we believe in Q4 this year.
Earl Davis of quite the
conversation starter. Looking for
potentially 50 basis point hikes in
2027.
I mentioned that the three dissenters
got some additional support from another
Fed president. That Fed president is the
Boston Fed president, Susan Collins, in
an interview with our colleagues at
Bloomberg News.
>> Yeah, she said that she agreed with the
dissenters, and she would have preferred
to adjust the wording. She doesn't think
this Fed should have an easing bias.
Do you think this Fed should have an
easy pass?
>> Right in. Dennis Kelly of Morgan
Stanley, do you want to start that? I
know we can do phones.
Phones would be great. Terry Haines of
Panji Policy will join us too. We'll
catch up with the Merrill Wealth
Management President Eric Shimp and Max
Layton of City. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
There isn't really any sign of the labor
market cracking right now.
>> They will see sufficient weakness in the
labor market.
>> got to sort of think that inflation is
going to be better than it has been.
>> Which you'll be expecting inflation to
go up initially. We've run off the edge
of the cliff. We're running through
mid-air, but we have not yet had
economic gravity pulling us down. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action looks like this.
Equities record highs adding to them
this morning by 10th of 1% on the S&P
500. The earnings super powerful from
AMD, The Walt Disney Company, Uber. Tech
is still investing and consumers are
still spending. In the commodity market,
getting a helping hand from crude,
Brent, and WTI. South of triple digits.
98 on Brent, 92 on WTI. That's dragging
yields lower. Breaking away from the
highs of the year on 10s and 30s. 30s
back down to 4.92, 10s at 4.33. Later
this morning, more economic data for
you. The appetizer before the big one.
Payrolls tomorrow morning. Later this
morning, jobless claims at 8:30 Eastern
time.
>> We just saw the lowest reading for
jobless claims in the previous reading
since 1969. Do we get a repeat of that
type of strength, a signal of strength?
Or we have basically broken this
particular mechanism as an indicator of
some sort of job health and jobs market
health. Ultimately, how does this market
view an incredibly hot labor market? Is
that a positive? Well, probably for
equities. Is that a positive for
positive for bonds and for the Federal
Reserve? Probably this makes this job
that much more difficult, which again
goes back to that bond stock dynamic and
at one point yields start to bite into
some of the stock optimal.
>> Well, let's just sit on the data just
for now. Momentum in the ISM's,
jobless claims at multi-decade lows.
Prices paid, the prices paid component
of some of these PMIs super elevated.
So, why do we have an easing bias at the
Federal Reserve? People are talking
about Chairman Walsh being recklessly
dovish. Let's talk about this Federal
Reserve led by this chairman with an
easing bias at this Federal Reserve in
the face of that and some dissent some
growing dissent from more officials.
>> Yeah, the idea that Boston Fed President
Susan Collins coming out and saying had
she been voting she would have agreed
with the dissenters. That she does think
that inflationary pressures have
increased. She was just speaking with
some Bloomberg colleagues of ours. There
is a feeling that this Federal Reserve
has to adopt or leave its easing bias on
the side of the room in order to move
forward and really address the
inflationary threat that a lot of other
central banks seem to be recognizing or
else they risk an increasingly weaker
dollar and potentially higher long-term
yields. And that ultimately is the game
that a lot of interest rate strategists
are playing. Uh the Fed Boston Fed
President Collins says she doesn't want
this language to be associated with the
presumption that the next move will be a
cut. What does Kevin Walsh do when he
walks in? Because there's going to be a
tremendous amount of what feels like
pressure almost for him to keep that
easing bias at the Federal Reserve,
especially at his first meeting, when
clearly that is what this White House
would like to see. That meeting's
difficult. They also have to put out
some forecasts. It's difficult to
forecast right now. Who knows where
these talks will be with Iran. Who knows
what the situation will be with energy.
I've got no idea. They'll have to put
some numbers on it in June and that's a
difficult task. Key point for June is
going to be who is Kevin Warsh and
exactly how much of an easing bias does
he adopt in the face of some of these
inflationary pressures? That will have a
material effect on markets worldwide.
>> Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Dan Skelly of Morgan Stanley as tech
pushes equities to new heights. Terry
Haines of Pan Gea Policy as President
Trump declares victory over Iran and Max
Layton of Citi as crude settles below
100. We begin this hour with stocks
holding on to record highs. Dan Skelly
of Morgan Stanley writing, "The market
has treated domestic policy and
geopolitical shocks almost like pop-up
ads in a longer winding movie focused on
AI and a resilient economy." Dan joins
us now from Wall Dank and Morning.
>> Good morning, John. The market has been
paying up to go out free. It's getting
expensive on the tech side of things. Do
you like that? I was thinking about that
when I read that quote. Thank you.
I'll move on. Has anyone said no? Okay.
I want to surprise him. No? No, it's
fine. It's so good. Thank you so much.
Thank you so much. I love that gift.
It's my
birthday. It's really good.
And only that could be real. Can I exit
out of these pop-up, you know?
>> On the homers.
>> Yes. Anyway, okay.
>> October 26th. Start again. My goodness.
Get engaged. All right. Me? Yes.
>> Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you so
much. All right, good to see you. Good
morning. How expensive is tech right
now? Yeah, so John, tech has really been
the story for the past several weeks and
really going on for a long time now. And
the story clearly within tech is semis.
And I think what has surprised folks is
not so much the rate of CapEx continuing
to accelerate every quarter. We've kind
of grown accustomed to that. It's kind
of like this tradition every quarter now
with the hyperscalers. What has
surprised people is more two things. One
is we're just coming out of this massive
trade war last year and yet we import
90% of the components for semis, memory,
tech hardware. And so I think the flow
of trade and getting all the goods has
been surprising. And number two, it's
about this rotation within semis. Three
years ago, GPUs. A year ago, memory
chips. And now, CPUs. So it's back to
the future. And that's the part that's
caught people off guard is the rotation.
And this massive move we've seen in some
of these chip clients is just crazy. AMD
exploded. The CPU story, we're talking
about that yesterday. Do you think if we
can address the situation
first and straight and foremost in the
Middle East, and we can actually move
on. That's no longer just a pop-up ad we
want to work out. If we move on that we
will trigger a rotation back to the
other stories again. We go back to where
we were at the start of the year. Yeah,
and Jonathan, it's almost if the market
has seen the US flip its cards already
in terms of the ceasefire. And I think
the reaction, maybe not unfairly at
first, was is this a replay of
Russia-Ukraine four years ago when we
were thinking could this go on for a
long time? Could it be a forever war, a
stalemate? Um and so look, I think two
things. Number one is we were telling
people to stay the course five weeks ago
because number one we were saying we
could deal with high oil prices. We have
a K-shaped economy, which we've talked
about ad nauseam. The higher-income
consumer continues to take the lion's
share of total spend. Uh and secondly,
we never thought the conflict would go
on forever. We thought it would be more
limited. So the market is almost kind of
moved on, and that's been uh definitely
corroborated by the backwardation in the
oil futures curve that are still around
80 bucks by the end of this year. The
market has moved on from the conflict,
but there's certain economic
ramifications that could be somewhat
lasting. Uh and inflation is a
significant part of that, especially
given the fact that all the increased
prices that a lot of companies have
experienced, they've been able to pass
along to their consumers. At what point
does that become a headwind to the story
a bit more than it would have been
earlier this year? So Morning, Lisa. And
so I think it's an excellent question.
My My My uh point would be thinking
about stocks. Stocks are a nominal asset
uh they are a nominal claim on a real
asset. And so I think your issue is more
in terms of within stocks, you have to
favor companies with pricing power.
Uh and you have to be a little bit more
kind of keen on other asset classes,
maybe fixed income, that doesn't have
that type of pricing power. And I think
your broader point in terms of when does
this affect the economy?
Uh you know, look, we've continued to
see a lot of people absorb higher travel
and airline tickets. We've seen people
absorb higher food prices. And we we
would just argue there is a new range
for energy prices, probably 80 being the
floor and 100 being the ceiling. If we
go much past 100 and the ceiling
collapses, that's a problem, but we
don't see the issue yet.
>> Yeah, and that's uh one of the reasons
why I was distracted from fully
applauding John's joke.
You know you know what I remember?
Remember JetBlue? Yes. When he said
please clap.
That was one honestly. That was what you
were doing? The greatest moments of
political campaigning I've ever seen.
That's what you wanted to replicate at
that time.
>> was bombing so hard. You've planned the
speech. You've got the joke. In the
speech it says wait for applause.
And he turns around and says please
clap.
>> Okay. Well, you know, replicate that.
>> that moment enough.
>> This is always better sometimes when
politicians actually do it. Trump does
it. McDonald's, forgive me.
>> No, I was looking at McDonald's and and
they just came out and comp sales
actually missed, which is notable given
the fact that earnings per share
actually beat across the board and a
pretty big beat. And they were talking
about how they're emphasizing higher
margin items. I just wonder how long
some of the consumer-facing brands can
keep doing this. The whole idea of
higher margins, the whole idea of being
able to raise prices for a select group
of people to pad things out because
there are a lot of people who just are
not coming to their doors. So, I think
that McDonald's in particular has one of
the highest skews to Europe in
particular. And so, if you think about
just the broad broad global consumer
spectrum, clearly higher oil prices are
an issue everywhere, but they're I I
would argue they're exacerbated
overseas.
Um so, that's number one. Number two is
when you think about different uh
business models, we've continued to
favor what we call the rags six, which
is a a riff on mag seven, which are
these platforms in the US, the big box
platforms across retail, food, housing.
Uh and the reality is they have the best
value for your money type franchise out
there and they've continued to lower
prices. Uh and so McDonald's may be
going in the opposite opposite direction
trying to look for higher margin
products. We've again continue to favor
these broad consumer platforms that are
just continuing to aggregate market
share across the consumer throughput.
>> a sign that the economy is not doing
that well if you have some of these big
retailers having to lower prices? Uh not
necessarily because if you think about
it, yeah, you're seeing some of the
higher income folks trade down, but
their core customers continue to come
back and they're unlike um the name you
just referenced, they're continuing to
see an acceleration in comps and
same-store sales. Uh and beyond that,
they're the ones who also are able to
reinvest much like the Mag 7 from years
ago, they're utilizing their excess
market share to reinvest in the business
via vis-a-vis omni-channel and all these
membership type businesses. So, what are
they doing? They're accruing recurring
revenue streams and that's another way
they're offsetting uh cyclical ebbs and
flows in the consumer.
>> you calling them again? What's the
>> The Rag 6.
>> 6. Okay. That's laugh at him. I'm not
laughing at him, but I know that But the
thing is is that
Please laugh at him.
That's not the comparison that we want.
I you talk about Walmart, you talk about
Amazon, you talk about the others which
are actually becoming tech companies as
well. So, that's also the way that they
can consolidate market share. Again
though, it becomes the haves and the
have-nots once more. Please clap.
Just going to see if he does. Likewise.
>> Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
Come on, Lisa. I I love that every
single time. Every single time. Dan
Gallagher, constructive. Lisa, super
bearish. Good morning, Lisa.
Dan Gallagher of Morgan Stanley there.
Let's get you an update on news
worldwide, your Bloomberg Brief with
Yuhaira Hayakawa. Hi John. The Trump
administration is looking at using oil
under US military bases to refill the
nation's emergency reserves. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, no
decision has been made on the
initiative. The SPR is poised to reach
its lowest level since 1982.
Meanwhile, McDonald's shares are rising
3% in the premarket. The fast-food
giants reporting first-quarter sales
that fell just short of expectations,
but did show a rebound from a year ago.
EPS also beating. The company said
larger orders boosted US results helped
by pricier items like its hearty Big
Arch.
And in sports, the match-up is set for
the Champions League final. PSG is
looking for back-to-back trophies after
beating Bayern 6-5 in the aggregate.
They'll be taking on Arsenal who held on
to beat Atletico. The match is set for
May 30th. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. That should have been the final.
It really should have been Bayern Munich
PSG. Fantastic fantastic two legs of
football in the last couple of weeks. I
know that there are people who watched
that. I actually didn't watch it, but
people are very excited. People like
Carol Bramer. People like Carol Bramer.
Okay. What was the feedback like? Good
game. Enjoyed it.
>> Incredible game. You see Bank of America
this morning? Yes. France will win this
year's FIFA World Cup, they say.
>> Yeah. Apparently they don't know that.
Dan Dan Dan Skelly says AI is Spain.
Oh, okay.
>> So we can actively bet human versus AI.
>> a Morgan Stanley take or is this a Dan
Skelly take? This is a AI take. Okay.
You According to the real night. All
right. Yeah. Yeah. Got it.
No, I know. Yeah. Okay. Please clap for
the Knicks.
>> is Arsenal, isn't it? Yes. Is that your
team? No. Okay. My team is the Knicks at
this point.
>> Let's Let's go. Nicks in six. The one
game two? Yes. Very cool. All right.
It's closer though. Yeah. It's scary. It
wasn't like that 50-60 point gap. It was
closer. Okay.
And OG potentially
>> want to clap for the Knicks as well? OG
potentially OG potentially has um an
injury, so I don't know Friday is going
to be a little rough. What happened? I'm
next on the program.
Winding down the war with Iran.
They want to make a deal badly.
And we'll see if we get there. Their
leaders are all dead. So, I think we
won. Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon,
and they won't. And they've agreed to
that.
Sir Hans of Pancheer Policy joins us
next in the commercial break. We'll
attempt to get the show back on the
rails. From New York City this morning,
good morning.
I didn't know this, but Bloomberg
Intelligence apparently has a please
clap weekly ETF update
that they send out as a newsletter every
week with a picture of Jeb Bush on.
I had no idea that existed until now.
>> Well, it should be great reading. Is it
politically motivated ETF? No, I don't
believe it is. Agricultural ETFs.
The White House called for Leo's a
performance. Yeah, there we go. part of
it. Yeah, so you know. I'm reading the
note now. I shouldn't be, but
interesting. Equity futures right now in
the S&P positive by 1/10 of 1%. Just
about unchanged on the Nasdaq this
morning. Turn to commodities, just a
quick update on crude for you. For a
third consecutive session, Brent crude
lower by 2.5% We're down to 98. We were
lower than that yesterday, briefly
breaking 90 on WTI. We're down by three
percentage points so far this morning.
People are taking a signal and running
with it, which is this White House wants
to be done with the war and ultimately
want to come to the table. Key questions
and concerns linger in terms of will
Iran come to the table and will they
actually be able to agree on anything?
And frankly, the bigger question, how
long before ships actually start to go
through the Strait of Hormuz? Hadas Aviv
is this morning winding down the war
with Iran.
No, they want to make a deal badly.
And we'll see if we get there. If we get
there, they can't have nuclear weapons.
You know, it's very simple, but what's
not to submit? The leaders are all dead.
So, I think we won. Iran cannot have a
nuclear weapon, and they won't. And
they've agreed to that among other
things. So, here's the latest this
morning. President Trump saying an
agreement with Iran could be reached
within a week with Tehran expected to
respond to Washington's proposal at some
point in the next day. Bloomberg's Dana
Khana has the latest in Washington. Good
morning, Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at least
publicly the two sides still feel very
far apart, though the White House does
maintain that a deal will get done. Our
reporting does indicate that there are
active discussions about a potential
moratorium on Iran's uranium enrichment
capabilities, but Iranian officials have
long maintained that there will not be
any concessions related to its nuclear
program. Though, before we can get
there, this one-page memorandum of
understanding would first see a gradual
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz with
the US lifting its naval blockade, which
at this point is still very much in
place. In fact, CENTCOM just yesterday
confirmed that the US military has
disabled another Iranian-flagged oil
tanker that was trying to transit
through the Gulf of Oman because
conditions right now related to the
Strait of Hormuz is really compounding
that domestic pressure that this White
House is feeling when it comes to a con-
when it comes to the conflict as the
Wall Street Journal is now reporting
that at least privately senior advisers
to President Trump are growing
increasingly worried that the rising
cost in fuel is going to cause
Republicans to pay a political price as
we get closer to the midterms. In fact,
just this week a new poll out from
Marist College finds that nearly eight
in 10 Americans say that higher prices
at the pump are putting a strain on
their household financials. And John, of
course, it's not just domestic pressure
that is building on President Trump, but
also foreign policy pressure as well as
he gets ready to head to Beijing next
week to meet with Chinese President Xi
Jinping. President Trump told reporters
just yesterday that he thinks there's a
quote very good chance a deal can get
done before then as our analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say the recent visit
by Iran's foreign minister to China does
signal that the country wants to get
more involved in the diplomatic efforts.
>> Tana, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Appreciate it. Tana Kendal, down in the
nation's capital. Terry Haines at Pan T
Policy writing. We put the potential for
snapback to hostilities as more than a
trading risk, at least. Terry joins us
now for more. Terry, welcome to the
program. This White House seems pretty
committed to de-escalation. They had the
opportunity to escalate things earlier
this week when things got volatile. What
would it take to resume hostilities?
Well, I'll take the In answering that
question, John, I'll take the other side
of that argument. The I think the White
House would very much like to
de-escalate, but they wanted to
de-escalate based on Iran not getting a
nuke and the Strait of Hormuz reopening.
So, as long as Iran won't agree to that,
they're going to continue to do that,
they're going to continue to push.
And they're also you know, continuing to
ratchet up the the economic pressure on
Iran. One way to look at this is that
the White House is betting that the
economic pressure on Iran causes Iran to
buckle before there are serious
consequences worldwide. But
fundamentally, if if Iran remains
recalcitrant on any of this stuff and
sticks to it, then I think you're then I
think you are, you know, at least likely
to see not just rhetoric on
on ramping up. I think you're likely to
see some action
to to show people that in Iran that the
United States is serious about this.
Terry though, when it comes to this
one-pager, a lot of reporting about it
basically outlines something very
similar to the JCPOA.
How is that in and of itself acceptable
to this White House?
Well, I think there's a lot of crossfire
reporting on this, Anne Marie. Frankly,
you get the kind of memorandum of
understanding, and at the same time, the
memorandum of understanding is supposed
to describe a condition where serious
negotiations will start based on that
memorandum. So, you know, there's a lot
of gauze here. And
and you know, Trump is trying to
to limit their options in order to
provide more progress and ultimately get
them to a deal.
But you know, the way I would look at
that is you know, I don't think that's
certainly the the base acceptable
condition to the United States. Equally
importantly, I don't think it's a base
acceptable condition to our Gulf allies
who who very much want to see the Iran
genie put back in the bottle and for for
a generation at least and and want a
situation where they don't have to worry
about Iran as a threat
overall. But when it comes to this White
House, they're clearly concerned about
how stocks around the world are being
drawn down when it comes to fuel and
other gasoline products and the midterm
elections. How are they weighing both
these options? Because obviously if you
escalate in terms of kinetic
hostilities, that's going to be an
increase in oil prices.
Well, yeah, there of course they're
concerned about the economy and they
should be. But at the same time I think
it bears understanding that they're not
concerned just about the economy. You
know, there's there's a
there's a long litany of things that
we all could say, you all said on air,
I've said, you know, there lots of
downsides for Trump going into this and
yet they did it anyway. So, there's a
you know, there's there is a
geopolitical
problem here. The Iran nuke problem and
now the straight problem
that is underappreciated I think in a
lot of this and was and was considered
by this White House to be so important
that all the downsides you know,
didn't balance it out.
Terry, are we gauging the potential
political ramifications correctly here?
Yesterday uh, we saw the Indiana and
Ohio primaries actually on Tuesday, but
yesterday we got the actual results and
some of the candidates that President
Trump supported, even at the behest of
incumbents, were the winners. It seemed
to indicate that President Trump still
has quite the clutch over the Republican
Party. Are we overestimating the
political loss from this conflict in the
midterms?
Today, I think so, Lisa, and behalf or
for a number of reasons.
One is that Trump showed in Indiana
that the base will come out and the base
will be motivated to,
to to give him what he wants. So, you
consider that a counter to the
the enthusiasm gap that so far has
favored Democrats. Secondly, on the
redistricting business, you know,
there's a lot of people who come on and
will tell you, oh, you know, the
Republicans are going to lose this and
all the rest. Redistricting affects
potentially as many as 200 out of 435
seats in the House, firstly.
Secondly, if you you bring all those
redistrictings together, it comes up
with a, assuming that the districts stay
R or D, it comes up with a very tiny R
advantage. Today, I think it's plus
three, plus four, or something like
that. Uh, but either way, there aren't
going to be massive swings in the, in
the House and in the Senate, what it
looks like is that the
progressive left and, you know, with
people like Graham Platner and the the
gentleman in Michigan who's running,
are taking over and but but really in
doing that, you're seeding the center to
people like Susan Collins. Also, that's
also not good for Democrats. So, you
know, I'd I'd urge everybody to take a
breath on the narrative. What does that
imply for policy that maybe people are
underpricing?
Um,
I think what it
what it implies for policy is a couple
of things. One is that if there's a
continued Republican Washington, all R
Washington, uh, then, you know, the
legislation can continue as well as
regulation. Uh, I think what uh, markets
are pricing in today is that uh,
majority in at least one house goes
away.
Uh, but even in that scenario,
regulation continues. But if uh, there's
an all R Washington, then you should
consider that uh, animal spirits will
continue to be up cuz there are continue
to be optimism about the uh, the
possibility of uh, Trump continuing to
stoke the economy and uh, then kind of
bring it back uh, to a position of
greater dynamism than there was before.
Terry, quick final question. Can you
believe it's been 10 years since police
clap with Jeb Bush in New Hampshire? 10
years. I'm so glad you brought that up.
And the just uh, cuz it's great. And uh,
you know, then we can also throw a lot
of the Biden ones in though. The uh, you
know, the the quality of mercy is uh,
not strained and the quality of
politicians are clearly going down. It's
been quite a decade, hasn't it, Terry?
Thank you, sir. Terry Haines there of
Panacea Policy at the Hanover Hotel in
Hanover, New Hampshire on February 2nd,
2016.
This is what the uh, media, the
spokesperson for the Bush campaign said
at the time that the media had
mischaracterized the event, describing
police clap as a charming moment.
Well, clearly we're still talking about
it. So, it kind of is like the screen.
>> It would be charming if Jeb Bush was
charming.
Oh.
AM H, hearts break so
I mean, Jeb's already taken some heat
right in this one.
>> Honestly, there there are all sorts of
moments, right? It's like the Howard
Dean
That's the one that always comes up.
>> Yeah. But I think the Jeb Bush moment
>> that's that's actually better. Yeah.
Yeah, cuz that was just enthusiasm.
>> promise we won't talk about it again,
okay? Up next, we'll catch up with the
wealth management president of Merrill.
Up next, Eric Schiffer.
Equity futures on the S&P just about
positive here by close to a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500 coming into Thursday.
All-time highs on the Nasdaq just about
unchanged. We've said this a few times
already this morning. The earning story
of the last 24 hours has been so
powerful. AMD and not just tech. You
mentioned Walt Disney. You mentioned
Uber. The consumer is still spending and
big tech of course is still investing.
DoorDash, perfect poster child for this.
Some people are ordering food and
they're ordering food a lot even though
you have to pay a fee and even if you
cancel, you don't get your money back
necessarily. So if people are just
paying as much as they can to order food
for the privilege of having someone else
bring their food to their doors and
they're willing to pay up for it. Gives
you a sense of where we are.
>> Some people. Some people. Okay. Is this
you? Please clap.
It's definitely me. I own it.
>> clap moment. Is this I promise we'll
come back to you anyway. Anyway. It's
not bad. Just took us right back in
there.
>> walk. I go pick it up.
>> Oh, do you?
>> It's good for your body. But then you
build a relationship with the restaurant
too and I think that's important.
>> a There's a restaurant that I really
like
in Manhattan
and every Friday I would order from
there and I guarantee they've got no
idea who we are.
And every single week we'd order from
there. And then you but you've got a
relationship with DoorDash which is
still
>> with DoorDash
>> picking up. I used to go to this one
place in London I used to pick it up. I
moved, came back and visited and they
said we had no idea where you went. They
were actually nervous about me, my
safety.
>> was in London? Yeah, you know the
>> I've been to that restaurant with you,
yes. Yeah, in Aura. In Mayfair. Okay.
>> There you go. There you go.
>> Wonderful Lebanese food.
>> Okay. And Marie's kind of restaurant.
That's the score in the equity market.
Let's turn to crude. Brent WTI. Brent
crude down for a third consecutive
session. 97 handle on Brent. We're down
by more than 3%. This is where things
stand. We could be signing a one-page
memorandum of understanding. The US has
proposed something. We're waiting for
the Iranian response to it through
Pakistani mediators and that could
happen in the next 24 hours. Dan Kelly
really summed it up well that people are
viewing geopolitics as a pop-up button
and they're trying to just pop out of
the advertisement that keeps popping up.
And that's the reason why you see
markets responding so significantly to a
deal that still has a lot of work to do
to get over the finish line.
>> That move in crude happening this move
in bonds yields to lower across the
curve. Two's down too, 10's down too as
well. 433 on 10's this morning. The
two-year at 385. If you missed it
earlier on this morning, we had those
three dissents to the statement at the
Federal Reserve a week ago. They want to
remove the easing bias. We spoke to the
Boston Fed President President Collins
and she supported those dissents so that
there there are others on the committee
that would like to drop that easing
bias.
>> surprise for a lot of people in markets
is why there wasn't more agreement to
drop the easing bias given the fact that
you've got inflationary pressures. The
Norwegian Bank hiked rates and it was
surprising to a lot of people. The
Australian Bank Central Bank hiked
rates. They're seeing inflation
pressures also a robust labor market.
Will we see a robust labor market
tomorrow? What can this Fed do in terms
of continuing to maintain that easing
bias?
>> And to Susan Walsh, welcome to the
Federal Reserve. Big job ahead of him.
As we count you down to the open about
two hours away, let's get you some
morning movers. Danny Burger has more.
Hey Danny. Hey John, some more earnings
for you, but this one to the downside.
Arm had been participating in this
really powerful chip rally. In fact,
it's up over 100% year-to-date. So not
surprising that you get a miss. Overall,
their earnings did beat, but it was a
miss on the royalties around iPhones.
Also, they're having a compute a crunch
rather in supply constraints for AI
chips. Too much demand, not enough
there. So you see shares fall 8.3%, but
again after a huge rally in this equity
stock. At the same time, we got
McDonald's earnings. Those were better
than expected. A very clean beat across
the board. Their global sales rebounded
after falling last quarter. It seems
that the bulk of the gains came from
their more value-oriented products and
their big arch burger despite that very
cringey video from the CEO that
apparently did not dent any earnings. So
those shares up more than 3%. Finally,
rounding things up with another earning
this morning, Unity Software. There's
about $11 billion company. They do AI
They have a platform that does
AI-powered mobile advertising, and that
was really, really strong for them. So,
again, it's one of these companies that
can show up and say, "Hey, here's where
AI capabilities are adding to our
results." Those shares up to and a third
of a percent. John. Hey, Danni, thank
you. Thank you for the update. More from
Danni in the next hour. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
declaring victory over Iran, expecting a
peace deal to be finalized within a
week. The president claiming the US has
had good talks with negotiators and that
Tehran agrees it cannot have nuclear
weapons. As well, the GameStop CEO, Ryan
Cohen, claiming eBay suspended his
account. The alleged ban coming after
Cohen listed personal items, including a
pair of socks and life-size Halo 2
statue to help fund his $56 billion bid
for the company. And finally, Anthropic
partnering with Elon Musk's SpaceX
signing a landmark deal to access the
Colossus 1 data center. The move is
expected to boost computing power for
Anthropic's AI, allowing the company to
raise usage limits and meet some surging
demand.
>> Elon Musk said that he agreed this after
making sure that Claude is good for
humanity, saying that no one set off my
evil detector. So long as they engage in
critical self-examination, Claude will
probably be good. Look, first of all, it
is clear that the likes of Anthropic and
OpenAI, who clearly that was trying to
throw shade at, Yep.
giving are are giving a lot of people
business in terms of the compute world.
They have a lot of desire for compute,
and they are, to your point, kind of
holding up a lot of the ecosystem in
terms of demand for some of this energy.
They all need to work together. A lot of
personalities. I'm just curious what
happens when one gains clout to the
other. I mean, are we overbuilding? That
kind of goes to all of these questions.
>> think it's interesting because Anthropic
is also going to be competing with Elon
Musk when it comes to the DOD, when it
comes to XAI and Grok. But at this
moment, he's willing to team up with
them. And I think it's easy when he
says, "No one set off my evil detector."
I think partially is because of open AI,
but also maybe partially because what
did we hear from Emil Michael at the
Department of Defense?
>> Some strong words.
>> Yeah, saying that he the CEO of
Anthropic has a god complex.
>> This is the thing supporting this equity
market right now. Not the back and forth
between these leaders, the earnings, the
earnings and the investment we're seeing
in big tech with stocks at all-time
highs. The Merrill Wealth Management
President Eric Schimpf writes in this,
"Profits have surprised to the upside
and forward estimates have been moving
higher helping offset the uncertainty."
Eric joins us now for more. Eric, good
morning and welcome to the program.
>> Yeah, good morning. Good to see you.
Usually you guys you come our way, but
it's nice to
>> nice to have you come to the studio and
do a return visit. What are the client
balances now? Close to 4 trillion?
Correct.
>> You've got a lot of insight across a lot
of money. Just describe the last 2
months. What have people been doing?
Yeah, if you would have thought right
from where we are in the March to
all-time highs today, um
can clients have sort of said, "Hey,
this is kind of contained." And as you
guys have been talking about this
morning, earnings have been driving this
story. And clients have been putting
money at risk, right? They've They've
They've been adding risk to their
portfolio.
>> grad.
It's true.
>> It would be easy for you to get lost in
these headlines and focus on the
geopolitics. Have you parked that and
focused on what's really driving stocks
right now?
>> Again, I think the market likes
certainty, but this is sort of contained
and the underlying fundamentals have
been so strong. Earnings power,
spending,
um sort of stable interest rates, uh
earnings revisions to the upside.
Um it's just driven this thing and and I
think
when it's said and done, um if the
earnings headlines or the the headlines
sort of
go away, this thing is is continued to
go. It's There's a lot of power behind
it.
>> Can you cross
that kind of financial reality with the
reality on the ground that we're hearing
in parts of Asia and even potentially in
Europe of physical shortages and what
that is doing in terms of crimping
certain flight say of Lufthansa of
Lufthansa from uh certain regional
cities or you know, some of the
potential issues that are constraining
growth in other parts of the world. Um I
think it just comes down to selection,
right? And you have to pay attention to
things that are going on. There's
There's pockets that I'm sure will have
some weakness and pockets that won't be
great, but
I lead 12,000 wonderful financial
advisors, right?
And everybody should have a financial
plan, and everybody should have
something tailored for their risk
tolerance and their ability to invest.
Um I think there's plenty of areas that
are set to to do quite well. How much
are we underestimating
the money supply?
I mean, whenever we talk to people,
they're like, "Well, you know, people
want to take risk." Is it just that
there's so much liquidity right now in
the system that we just have no concept
of how much really is looking to be put
to work? And so ultimately, any sign of
positivity is going to unleash this huge
cash flow.
>> that's exactly what's happening. And,
you know, Jonathan mentioned, you know,
when I first started, every time we
check in, "How the How are the
balances?" Jonathan always starts with
that that question. And he And he
mentioned 4 trillion. There's a portion
of that that sits in cash, and I would
say probably elevated more than
historically you would think. Um and
it's sitting there ready to go. And we
see it every time there's a dip, every
time there's a move, clients want to put
risk on, again, based on the planning
that they've done in advance of
something like that. But cash is sitting
there, and I think it's uh
ready to go. We've had a series of
supply-side shocks that have upset the
bond market, and there's clearly a
pretty tight correlation between
equities and bonds right now. And we've
seen how leveraged the developed market
rate story is to the price of crude. How
does that change the approach to
equities and bonds in a portfolio right
now? How are you working around that
story?
Um again, when you, you know, my job is
to give lead advisors who give as much
advice as they can to as many Americans
as they can. And it's tailored, and it's
And it's individual. Um and the advice
we give isn't really driven on a
2-month, 3-month, 6-month cycle. We're
helping people invest
over years. This has been a 5-year story
now, though, where we've seen this
correlation between stocks and bonds
every time we get a supply-side shock
and we keep seeing more of them. Now, if
I'm a long-term investor, someone trying
to invest money for my retirement, do I
need to rethink my bond allocation with
that in mind? I think it will continue
to be an equity story as we go forward.
Um
and again, if headlines settle down and
earnings keep continuing um we're going
to be right there saying, you know, you
probably should continue to allocate
more to equities. When you say When you
say headlines, you mean the
uncertainty of what's going on because
of Washington. Have you ever seen a
moment like this where day in, day out,
is this what clients continuously ask
you about? Well, there's definitely a
cycle, right, that has seemed to be
quicker, right? News coming at us 24
hours, sometimes in the middle of the
day things will change. They ask, but
again, it comes back to what is the
long-term goal? What is the long-term
plan? Because there's always going to be
a headline, right? There's an energy,
you know, we've we've talked about
energy prices, we've talked about the
Middle East, midterm elections are
There's always something out there, but
as long as the investor can say, you
know, that's sort of contained, it's
compartmentalized
earnings, as John was saying at the
beginning of the or the, you know, the
top of the segment, earnings will drive
this thing higher and higher. It's
transitory until it's not. And just to
pick up on the idea of 60/40, this
question of are we in a new inflationary
regime keeps coming up. We have an
inflation above 5% above 2% for 5 years.
We're now exceeding that. We now have
inflation expectations that are ticking
upward if you look at the break-even
rates. How do you address clients who
say, are we in a new higher inflation
regime that changes the calculus of what
safe havens look like? Um listen, I
think it's a, you know, paying attention
to interest rates is extremely
important. We're sort of at this I think
a little bit of a crossroad, right?
Um
and and I actually think you could maybe
see a lightening of rates later on in
the year. I think it could it could
happen. You stay the course, you build a
portfolio over time. Um and if we see
weakness, I would tell you to maybe tilt
a little more into the equity side. Were
you at the Knicks game last night? Yes.
How did you know?
>> in just in Del Jamel.
>> Yeah, tell us about it.
>> Listen, I'm a huge Knicks fan. I've been
a Knicks fan forever. I love the Knicks.
I love when they win cuz it what it does
to the city, right? You you come outside
that game and people are I wish they
would have won a little earlier in the
evening. Um
you know, cuz it it it
makes it um
but yeah, I've been a lifelong Knicks
fan, season ticket holder, and How many
people have been tapping you up for
World Cup tickets? It's it's big. So,
it's you know, we're we're excited to be
one of the primary sponsors of of of the
FIFA World Cup that's that's coming here
to to North America. Honestly, Jonathan,
it surprised me. I'm a huge sports fan,
as you know. Maybe
you know, I'm learning the game of
soccer, but I have been surprised how
well it's been received and how people
are excited about it. Um
yeah, there's maybe an email or two. I
think that explains the price of tickets
over at MetLife, right?
>> Yeah. I was going to say, people tap him
cuz they want free tickets. They won't
pay $5,000 for the ticket. That's the
real issue. But just say. Seriously. I'm
excited and I've you know, go USA.
They're going to win it all. And that's
that's your call. That's a bold call.
It's that is bold. Merrill research,
right?
>> Eric, stick to stocks.
Eric, it's good to see you. Thank you so
>> Thanks again for having me.
>> Eric, thank you for being here. Eric
Shimf there, the president of Merrill
Wealth Management. Let's give you an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, Yohara Hasmore. Hi,
Yohara. Hi, John. In the labor market,
US job cut announcements falling nearly
21% in April compared to the same period
last year. Challenger, Gray and
Christmas reporting just under 84,000
layoffs in the month with most of that
coming from the tech industry.
UBS CEO Sergio Ermotti isn't ruling out
buying another firm as a way to boost
its business here in the Americas. The
Swiss lender has been working for years
to turn around its wealth business in
the US. UBS chairman Colm Kelleher has
said the bank would eventually look to
buy another US wealth manager.
And Wall Street bonuses are projected to
jump for the third year in a row.
Incentive pay for deal-making bankers is
poised to be up 10 to 20% from a year
earlier. Well, bankers who help
companies raise equity are likely to see
a similar bump. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, John.
Yohana, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yohana in the next hour. Up next on
the program, a crude wake-up call.
Refiners who are now buying because
we're entering the peak season are going
to continue to buy at high prices. So,
we are looking at higher prices longer
regardless of what we're seeing in the
futures market now. Up next, we'll catch
up with Max Layton of Citi from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity futures here positive by 1/10 of
1% on the S&P 500. Headline just dropped
around Citi. Planning to buy $30
billion
in shares. Planning to buy back $30
billion in shares. Headline just
crossing moments ago. A multi-year
buyback program starting in the second
quarter, Lisa. Yeah, shares lower by
about 3.6%.
They also are talking about their ROTCE
return on capital
up to 11% to 13% for 2027 and 2028.
So, they're talking about some of their
targets
and you're seeing a response in markets
as a response as a result. Just on
buybacks, Savita Subramanian of Bank of
America has put out
some research on this and I think it's
interesting. City, by the way, down 4%
to Alicia's point, but just on buybacks
more broadly.
This is the quote, "Say goodbye to the
equity shrinkage bull case. Since the
early 2000s, a confluence of factors
systematically reduced available public
equity year after year." That's
including buybacks, by the way. She says
this though, and this is what to watch
for.
"An issuance deluge may be imminent. The
three largest private companies
represent more than $2 trillion of
market cap." Now, this is not a story
for like next week, next month, but
maybe on a multi-year basis that story,
that tide started to turn. There has
been an equity scarcity, if you will, of
the past 4 years or so with companies
like Citigroup planning to buy back
their shares. A lot of these buyback
programs have been expected. Now we've
got the IPO potentially of OpenAI, of
Anthropic, of SpaceX, and you're talking
about a deluge, your point, and to
Savita's point, of new equities coming
to market. How does that influence some
of the valuations? Right now, it seems
like companies still are buying back
their shares, but that dynamic is waning
as some of the tailwind of the US equity
>> spending more on CapEx, shifting the
focus away from capital returns.
Things are already changing. That's the
equity story. Equity futures positive by
close to a tenth of 1%, record highs. In
the commodity market, Brent and WTI
pulling back. Brent below triple digits,
$98 a barrel this morning at the front
end of the futures curve. We're down by
more than 3%. And as Savita this
morning, a crude wake-up call.
The futures market can reprice
instantly. They can reprice as fast as a
trader can hit the sell button on their
keyboard. Vessels that have been
diverted away from the Persian Gulf are
going to remain diverted. Refiners who
are now buying because we're entering
the peak season are going to continue to
buy at high prices. So, we are looking
at higher prices longer regardless of
what we're seeing in the futures market
now. So, here's the latest this morning.
Oil hovering near triple digits after
plunging on hopes of a deal between the
US and Iran. Max Layton at City joins us
now for more. Max, welcome to the
program. Hopeium will drive the paper
market. It will not help demand and
supply clear at spot. Can we start with
physical? How tight are things still?
What kind of prices are people paying up
for physical barrels?
Sure. Yeah, so the physical barrel price
isn't isn't too much higher than the the
futures price, actually. Um we've had a
lot of questions about that particular
subject over the last couple of weeks
and you know, it's reminded me of what
happened back in 2020 when oil went
negative uh at WTI. Actually, across the
USA
uh physical barrels went negative in
price negative that day and the next day
across the US even though they didn't
fill up on storage. And the point I'm
trying to make here is is that actually
there's a lot of information in the
futures price. People talk a lot about
how spot price is the real physical
price, but the spot price this this
physical price actually, for example, in
the second quarter 2020 actually priced
off the futures price. So, I I'm not
sure it's as clear-cut as hey, all the
information's in spot cuz a lot of the
spot people, you know, they will be
trading based on where the futures are.
Max, this is really important. I just
want to build on that because most
people thought, particularly in the
commodity market, that we'd see paper
prices converge up to physical, but
physical has converged down to paper
markets, right?
Yep.
And that's despite, Max, that's despite,
Max, the strait still being closed.
Yeah, and look, a lot of it is to do
with the I I think the fact that
there's, you know, it's quite binary in
in some ways. It's very difficult to
predict if
um in particular the IRGC leader Vahedi
and um Mostafa Khamenei are going to do
a deal or not. Uh and you know, I think
it's fairly clear the US would like to
deal, certainly, you know, on their
terms.
Uh but it you know, in in that
environment where you basically don't
know if there's going to be a deal or
not, very difficult to predict with this
new leadership in Iran.
Um
you know, you're going to be subject to
news uh and you're going to be moving
around like crazy. Like a week ago we're
trading 125
front month and we're now at 98. And
it's on some hope of a deal of a of an
hope that we'll talk about a deal.
Right.
But putting a deal to aside, the actual
physical market
I basically what you're saying in terms
of if the physical market is coming down
to where the futures market is, that
basically shows that the world has
enough oil right now, doesn't it?
Well, I mean, it does. Over the last
couple of months, what we've lost what
we've actually lost in physical barrels
is less than what we built over the
preceding 12 months.
So, there's been quite a there was a
decent buffer that we built up in the
vicinity of 7 800 million barrels
globally. Now, most of that built in
China, but but even still, globally we
built some significant barrels in the
lead up to this.
And we're kind of eating through that
aggressively.
Physically, the impact is going to be
much more kind of spread out over time.
Uh and and I would So, for example, even
if there was a deal today, it would take
at least a couple of months to ramp back
up production, to clear mines, to to to
do all those kind of logistical things.
Uh and you would you would roughly
double the losses that we've already
seen over the last 2 months over the
next 2 months. So, physically, it's it's
going to happen over time.
Uh
Yeah. And And I mean, that And And the
other big thing is obviously as you draw
the inventories, there's a convex
relationship between inventories and
price.
Um so
you know, as you as you So initially
we're just drawing what we built over
the preceding 12 leading up to the
conflict, but eventually, certainly by
the time you get into the third quarter,
that's why a lot of people are, you
know, talking about that being the pinch
point, then you get you can potentially
get inventories down to levels which are
consistent with you know, $150 to $180
Brent, $200 plus product prices, that
kind of thing. So the physical that pull
is a bit more gradual.
Max, what just real quick here, what
would it take for you to actually lower
your forecast for oil prices, given that
you seem to see the market as much more
realistic than other commodity
strategists?
Yeah, so I look, I think it's all about
for me, it's about any signs that this
regime is going to put uh is going to do
a deal uh and that they're essentially
going to put uh
I guess, you know, one of the benefits
of them doing a quick deal is it can be
tied to legitimacy
uh that they don't want to disrupt the
global economy and that they'd rather do
a deal and in exchange for obviously
reduced sanctions and a number of other
uh monetary benefits. Uh so I I think
any sign
cuz to me
when I take this to an extreme I think
this regime can last not just months, I
think this regime can last under
blockade for for years. Uh it's
plausible that they simply print money
and prioritize that money towards a, you
know, the the pro-regime portion of the
population and uh
they can they So from when you think
about it from that perspective, this
regime
a lot of the choice about when they
deal, how they deal is up to them.
Hey Max, we'll leave it there. Let's go
to hear from you, Max, late in the of
city a conversation about crude just as
this headline drops that the DOJ is
probing 2.6 billion dollars in oil
trades related to the war in Iran. This
from ABC just moments ago. We'll spend
some time on that headline in just a
moment. This story is really important.
Up next, we'll catch up with Liz Ann
Sonders at Charles Schwab, Mamta
Kulkarni of PSP Growth, Nela Richardson
of ADP, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth, the third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
It's been a spectacular earning season
so far. The equity market is being
driven by corporate earnings.
>> You still got a little bit of upside.
>> We're still maximum overweight in
equities.
>> Short-term, it's a bit more
consolidation. We like the market longer
term.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Ann
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. All-time
highs coming into Thursday, adding to
them so far this morning. Up a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500, unchanged on the
Nasdaq. Sneak peek at crude, pulling
back for a third consecutive session.
Brent crude 98 handle, WTI at 91. That
move once again unlocking this move in
fixed income. Yields lower again by two
basis points at the front end of the
curve. Tens down two basis points as
well. In 30 minutes, we'll talk about
the economic data. Jobless claims at
8:30 Eastern time ahead of payrolls
tomorrow morning. Big conversation about
the labor market in the next 24 hours. I
actually want to start the next hour
with this story coming from ABC just
moments ago. This is really really
important. I know how many of you have
been very frustrated about the price
action around certain announcements with
this war over the last 2 months. This is
their story this morning. The Department
of Justice is investigating a series of
suspiciously timed trades in the oil
market just ahead of major announcements
by the president about the war against
Iran. This according to sources speaking
to ABC News. The DOJ along with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
probing at least four of these trades
where traders made a total of more than
2.6 billion betting the oil prices would
drop right before they did. They're
talking about a couple of specific
trades in this particular investigation
on March 23rd, 15 minutes before
President Trump announced he would delay
threatened attacks on Iran's power grid
and on April 7th hours ahead of a
temporary ceasefire announced by
President Trump. This has been
underpinning some people's skepticism
around the headlines and the reason why
for the most part you haven't seen the
kind of knee-jerk responses that you did
initially to some of these headlines. We
are getting now some response in terms
of the market to the idea of easing
tensions but it has a different flavor
because there is this skepticism about
who knows what first and who's trading
on it and I don't want to be the sucker
left holding the bag. Right, and you
could see some of these massive bets
that are placed conveniently 20-30
minutes before the President of the
United States comes out with a pretty
significant Truth Social post. It also
comes on the heels of the Wall Street
Journal yesterday reporting that US
diplomats have been warned not to use
any confidential information when they
go to prediction markets.
The White House also had an internal
memo about this. So, there is a little
bit concern in the White House about
what this actually means for them as
well.
>> Something we have in America that is
sacred.
Deep, liquid markets built on trust and
transparency. You do not want to be in a
situation where people disengage in
financial markets because they don't
trust what's happening in front of them.
I couldn't agree more and let's hope
that we can get to the bottom of this.
There is this underlying feeling in oil
markets in particular. And I I got to
say, yes, it's insider trading that that
that the the suspicion of it in the
United States, but it's also when you
have nations like Japan saying we're
going to start to trade in the oil
market. It's coming from all different
sides. That said, insider trading is
absolutely something that indicate that
really impedes consumer confidence.
>> People still ask me if I think or have
any information about this White House
being in the market and selling down
crude. Yeah, they're scary questions
that people are asking and hopefully we
get some answers about what's been
happening over the last 2 months. Equity
futures this morning on the S&P 500 just
about positive. Coming up this hour
we'll catch up with Liz Ann Sonders at
Charles Schwab with stocks extending
their record run. Mamta of PSP Growth on
the enthusiasm surrounded Big Tech and
we'll touch base with Nela Richardson of
ADP breaking down the latest jobs data.
We begin this hour with stocks edging
higher and crude holding near $100 a
barrel. Liz Ann Sonders at Charles
Schwab writing oil prices haven't
filtered through yet to weaker economic
growth because of lower energy
intensity, fiscal offsets, lags, and
renewed focus back on earnings and AI
spend. Liz Ann Sonders
now. Good morning.
>> Good to see you. How powerful has this
earning season been? Um powerful but a
bit narrow. So, if you this is now a
week old data. So, it's not something I
track on a day-to-day basis, but as of
about a week ago 70% of the dollar
increase in earnings expectations was
driven by only three stocks.
You see that within the tech space, too.
So, we've we've all talked at nauseam
about the narrowness within the market
at times in the last several years. You
are seeing a bit of that in earnings as
well. So, you are seeing across the
board improvement but within certain
sectors like tech and communication
services, the earnings growth boost is
concentrated in a small handful of
names.
>> we sound like a broken record because
this always comes up. We always ask the
same question. If I'm in the index, is
that a feature or a bug because in
America in the last 10, 15, 20 years
certainly feels like a feature. Uh if
you're in an index, yes. Um
interestingly though, there's been a
higher growth rate in active ETFs than
there has in passive ETFs. So, you have
seen a bit of a movement and in fact
more recently because we had had a
broadening out in the market that's
eased back since the onset of the war,
there has been more interest in active
management and and then you are not
fully at the mercy of what the indexes
are are doing. And it's also the case
that even though there's still some
concentration, it's in different names.
So, Mag 7 is no longer sort of the uber
focus of investors. I mean, the best
Mag 7 performer this year is ranked 72nd
in the S&P 500 this year. So, they're
not the best performers. They're still
high contributors to index gains by
virtue of the multiplier of their cap
size, but they're not the best
performers. Are rate cuts or even just
rates staying where they are enough to
unleash this broadening in a more
material way?
I think the market is fine if rates stay
where they are. Um first of all, I think
that's the appropriate stance of the
part of the Fed right now. I think it
was the right thing to do to put
themselves in a time-out box and I think
it's the right thing to stay there for
now. But what I think is interesting
when thinking about Fed policy
is you've
any rate cuts will likely be driven by
the employment side of their dual
mandate. Any rate hikes would be driven
by the inflation side of their dual
mandate. So, we really do need to keep
that dual mandate in focus because one
is a driver of potential cuts, one is a
driver of potential hikes. For now, I
think there's enough of an equilibrium
that the Fed won't do anything. The
reason why I ask is it seems like people
are looking for some sort of excuse to
rotate away from semiconductors, to
rotate away from some of the high-flying
tech names that have benefited during
the Strait of Hormuz crisis as people
look for havens. I just wonder
what they need for that confidence given
the fact that earnings really have been
concentrated in a number of names. And
frankly, there are some real risks that
come with higher inflation for some of
the other names that people are kind of
flirting with. Well, I I think a
rotational market is likely to persist.
We've been in this recent mode of tech
focus again, AI,
not just tech but comm services.
But that started with a rotation back
into
the meme stocks, the heavily shorted
stocks, retail favorites, quantum
computing. That you've already seen a
shift away from those areas back to more
traditional tech with, you know, the
likes of an Intel being the second best
performer, Sandisk, Micron. So, into
some degree some of those old-school
tech names. But I think those rotations
are going to continue. The churn and
rotation under the surface, I think
tells a fuller story of what's going on
in the market versus just what the index
level returns are.
>> You were one of the first notes I've
read in a while that didn't mention Iran
once and the conflict in the Middle
East. Have you just fully moved on?
Um no, but the the intraday and
day-to-day correlation, inverse
correlation between Brent oil and the
S&P has eased a bit. Um first of all,
I think this this market does at times
look very casino-like. You know, the
story you broke on some of those trades,
I've been writing about this a lot
recently. I wrote a piece a few weeks
ago with Kevin about um
gambling versus investing and how the
lines are blurring and just wrote a
piece uh again um or I just recorded a
video again that will be post today on
the same subject on the prediction
markets and further blurring of the
lines and the minuscule percentage of
accounts that actually make a profit
with those bets.
But I think it's it's indicative of the
mechanics of the market right now and
how much short attention span money is
driving the market and that's the short
attention span. It's not my personal
attention span. I think the war is
extremely important because
the quote you read for me, the filter
into the economy is still ahead of us,
not behind us. But the nature of the
market right now is up shiny new object
and uh What is going on with some of
these trades? Is it degrade US capital
markets where potentially people
wouldn't want to invest or is that going
too far?
>> Well, yes, in fact, uh
a a poll that was recently done that I
cited in this video that is posting
today
uh
it was a it was a very wide uh survey
and I I think it was only 4% that felt
the prediction markets and betting
markets are good for society.
Um so I do think but there's another
there was a recent Harris poll that
suggested a lot of younger
folks
view this as the only key to success.
They don't they don't believe in sort of
the systems. They don't have trust in
the systems and they're they're gearing
themselves more toward these betting
markets. To some degree it's a
get-rich-quick, but I I feel financially
behind and I don't have trust in things
like social security and traditional
retirement structures. So this is the
the key to uh bypassing that.
>> want to take you away too much away from
something you haven't published yet, but
just some additional thoughts on that if
you can.
That's a new demographic. Do you see
these trends as sustainable?
Well, uh
if you look at the the Harris poll that
I cited, which is in the report from a
few weeks ago,
they they did a poll based on
generations. Now, I'm a baby boomer, and
it was only about a 50%
yes, I think betting markets make sense
and feel that it's appropriate to
participate in them as a way to get to
your financial goals, but it was 80% for
the the youngest adult generation. So,
and it was a steady increase in the
percentage of folks saying,
"I don't trust traditional systems. This
is the way to uh to make some money."
It's one thing for people to feel this
way about Calshi and PredictIt. It's
another thing for people to feel this
about oil futures or names of particular
stocks.
>> Right. How much do you see prediction
markets and the behavior there bleeding
into the broad-based markets that people
think of as the very liquid and robust
US capital markets?
>> I I think that's another place where
bleed is a good word, blurring of the
lines. So, I I do think it is starting
to filter in, and I think these news
stories are getting an increasing amount
of attention. And what's also
interesting is I cited some data in this
this video that in terms of the success
rate
on the prediction markets, on
Polymarket, on Calshi, the highest
success rate, which is actually just
north of 50%, is in military and
defense. Maybe because of the asymmetry
that is more clean than the asymmetry in
other categories in the in those
prediction markets, but uh
it's a This is an ongoing story. Did
they Was it prediction Was it prediction
markets on which the bets were placed or
was it in the traditional energy
markets?
>> this story is about the futures market
in the in the energy sector.
>> Okay, got it. Yeah. Looking forward to
the video being published. Well, thank
you. Thank you very much for being here.
Lisette is on the Sanders there of
Charles Schwab on a shaky market that
keeps grinding out all-time highs on the
S&P 500.
>> Yeah, and some of the classic pillars
may be changing. I mean, I really I I I
feel like that's the takeaway for me is
how much people's attitudes toward it
are changing. You think about the
pandemic era of people sitting in the
rooms looking for a quick high, and they
thought, "Well, we can just trade some
stocks, so we could trade prediction
markets." And how much is that informing
the uh whac-a-mole action that we see
every day?
>> They say the game's rigged. I mean, you
see headlines like that. It is.
It is.
There's a worry that the game is rigged.
Right.
>> And the yellow generation, to to
Lisette's point, you can understand why
they feel like that they're not going to
get out of society what others before
them got out of society. And for the
only way for them to get ahead is to
take some high-risk bets. And they've
grown up in a period where you haven't
seen a huge downturn in the market. We
haven't seen a real capital cycle the
way that we did in 2008, 2009. So, since
then,
you'll get bailed out, so why not? And
that's a failure of successive
administrations, not just in this
country, but in other countries, too.
We've seen this across the board in the
West.
>> Yeah, you could say that ultimately this
is the monetization of the financial
system and how that has sort of fed into
the perceptions of risk and how that's
coming out, but I won't say that right
now because I'm just going to get back
down off my pedestal, and I'll save it
for home. And we've got to get to
commercial break in a minute as well.
So, futures right now on the S&P Yeah,
it sounds fun, doesn't it?
It's going to be fun later, right?
Equity futures on the S&P up by 1/10 of
1% with an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more.
Hey, Yohara. Hi, John. As you all were
discussing, the Justice Department is
investigating a series of suspicious
trades in the oil market. ABC News
reporting the DOJ is looking into at
least four instances in which traders
made more than $2.6 billion total
betting that oil prices would drop just
before they did.
Meanwhile, city shares are trading lower
in the pre-market after the bank's new
guidance showed that it would take much
more time to catch up to its peers. City
expects to reach a return on tangible
common equity of about 14 to 15% by
2031. Investors had been looking for a
more aspirational long-term target of
15% or more.
And Boston Fed President Susan Collins
agreed with colleagues who dissented
over wording in the Fed's post-meeting
statement. Collins telling Bloomberg
News she would have preferred adjusting
that statement away from its easing
bias. Collins expects rates to remain on
hold but isn't ruling out hikes. That's
your Bloomberg Brief. John. Yeah,
Hannah, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next, the Morning Consults
Plus Mamta of PSP Growth on the
enthusiasm surrounding big tech. That
conversation just around the corner.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
The story clearly within tech is semis.
The flow of trade and getting all the
goods has been surprising. And number
two, it's about this rotation within
semis. Three years ago, GPUs. A year
ago, memory chips. And now, CPUs. So,
it's back to the future. And that's the
part that's caught people off guard is
the rotation. That's Kelly Morgan
Stanley weighing in on the tech trade of
the last year or so and the big moves
we're seeing in chip stocks more
recently. And crude oil futures on the
S&P positive here by 1/10 of 1%. The
opening bell about an hour and 12
minutes away. That's the price action.
Let's get you some Morning Consults.
First, at Wells Fargo, raising its price
target on Uber expecting accelerating
growth in the second quarter. Your
second call from Guggenheim, raising its
price target on Disney, seeing strength
across segments. And finally, JP Morgan,
raising its price target on ARM to 240
and keeping an overweight rating citing
a clean quarter and relatively in-line
fiscal 27 outlook. Surprising because
that stock is getting hammered for other
reasons this morning. It's down by 9%. I
believe on sales to phones, the lower
end of the phone industry, smartphone
industry, not doing well, Bramo.
>> Yeah, so not necessarily the iPhone, but
the rest of the universe as people
talk about constraining their spending.
Really interesting how different some of
the stories are depending on the sector.
You just see the K-shape in different
industries. ARM a perfect example of
that.
>> ARM down this morning by close to 9%.
Let's stick with tech. Monami Kou of PSP
Growth writing the AI conversation has
shifted from capability to monetization.
Markets now want proof of returns, not
just bigger models or bigger CapEx.
Monami joins us now for more. Monami,
welcome to the program. You say that's
what markets want. Give us some
examples. Is Meta a good example of
that, the price reaction of Meta
recently to earnings, and can you think
of others, too?
Sure. I think there's a few examples of
that. And the bigger picture is that AI
has now shifted from promise of good
capabilities to show me the money. It's
no longer enough to say, "Here is the
promise of what AI can do." Investors
need to see real returns in real revenue
growth. So, one example is actually
Alphabet, which is arguably one of the
best performing ones of the Magnificent
Seven. There's a clean story around
revenue growth
from search, from Gemini, upside and
Waymo upside and YouTube. So, you're
seeing that stock perform very well.
Meta to your to your example is is an
interesting story. So, because the other
side of this is investor expectations.
It's not enough anymore just to beat
earnings. You have to beat investor
expectations. And Meta for the last few
months or quarters, investors have had
skepticism around its AI strategy. So,
there's some of a turnaround story, too,
in terms of Meta. So, you think of you
think of Alphabet, you think of Meta. I
would say Amazon too is starting to have
a cohesive story around how AWS fits in
with e-commerce. And those are the
things that investors are excited about.
>> One name missing, Microsoft. Where does
Microsoft fit in and where do you think
things aren't going right?
I'm probably more bullish than my on
Microsoft than maybe the rest of the
market. I think an issue with Microsoft
is investor expectations were just so
high on Microsoft from the very
beginning. They were such a frontrunner,
they were very aggressive with AI from
the very beginning. The partnership with
OpenAI, they own so much of the stack
from touching developers to touching
users. And then they had co-pilot a lot
earlier than a lot of the other
tools in AI. So, I think part of the
story is investors being, why isn't
Microsoft already dominating the AI war?
And where is the ex-exponential
monetization as opposed to something
more incremental? But I believe
Microsoft is solid. And the market is
probably under appreciating it. All
right, how do you understand whether
we're over hyping or the market is over
hyping the gains of Anthropic and OpenAI
ahead of their initial public offerings
potentially later this year. We're
working through a lot of investments,
whether it's Anthropic now and SpaceX or
of course Amazon having investments with
both Anthropic and OpenAI. Can you get a
good gauge on how much is hype and how
much people are actually seeing return
on investment?
I tend to focus, there's a lot of hype
in the market. I tend to focus on what
is
real enterprise adoption and where are
users actually paying money? And I think
a lot of the Anthropic success story
even to date is since the the beginning
they've been hyper-focused on
critical business use cases. They didn't
chase the consumer market. They've been
very focused on building enterprise
partnerships, like you saw in the recent
partnerships they've built with large
private equity firms. So, the their
focus from the very beginning in terms
of what is actually what what do people
actually want to pay for? I think it's
really important. That intersection of
what's possible and what's valuable is
where economic growth is going to
happen.
If you haven't invested money in some of
these names while they were private, are
the equity gains up? Right? I mean, you
think about the recent a couple of years
and companies IPO and then their shares
tend to do nothing or even fall for the
next few years. Are we heading into the
same type of
same type of dynamic with the likes of
Anthropic, Open AI, and SpaceX?
I think the market is going to react in
a more nuanced way. If you the examples
you gave, I would also throw in some of
the AI infrastructure names like
Cerebras is about to IPO. You can look
at some of the companies that are about
to
announce earnings like Coreweave and
Nvidia. And I think what you're seeing
is
not just growth at all costs anymore
because what investors expect from these
names is big growth, big losses, the
investor demand for AI,
the demand for AI is proven is more
going nuanced now in terms of shifting
to what is GPU efficiency, what are some
long-term contracts, what are real. And
I think companies that can show that
they have long-term recurring repeatable
revenues while controlling efficiency
around the compute will still be favored
in the market. What has been the
reaction to space in terms of security
following what's going on with Mythos?
Security is a big topic and
where this fits into the broader picture
is as AI now becomes more mainstream,
you have implications, right? You're
these powerful, powerful tools,
including models, is being put into the
hands of the users. These tools are
affecting the way we live, we work, we
play. So, we need other solutions in
order to protect our users
from the influx of these AI solutions in
terms of security. So, us here at PSP,
we're bullish on the security sector as
well. We have two portfolio companies in
the space. One is a company called
Zaffron. They detect enterprises
vulnerabilities from
everything from old threats to the
newest AI threats, and you rank them,
and there's a gentle capability to
mitigate them. We have another company
called Cinder in the space. What they do
is they make sure all the content is
trusted and safe and moderated before it
gets proliferated to the users. So, I
think security is a big piece of the
puzzle as AI moves from experimentation
to being more mainstream. It's going to
be a much, much bigger piece of the
puzzle, that's for sure. Mama, I
appreciate your time. Thanks for jumping
on for us. Mama Chew there of PSP Growth
on the difficulties over a meta, the
success of Alphabet, and where does
Microsoft fit in? That's a big question
right now. Yeah, especially because they
didn't see the same kind of cloud growth
as some of the other players did, AWS in
particular, and Google. Honestly,
Microsoft seems to have its It sort of
goes in a cycle, right? So, the ones
that get beaten up, are they going to
pull a Google? Are they going to pull an
Alphabet? I don't know. What a
turnaround from Alphabet. I know, right?
I really hope we can't We can't talk
about that enough. Crazy turnaround. Um,
next, jobless claims in America. Nela
Richardson of ADP reacts from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The open about 60 minutes away. Equity
futures into that positive by 1/10 of 1%
on the S&P 500, seconds away from
jobless claims. The last big data point
of the labor market we get ahead of
payrolls tomorrow morning. Claims are
revving coming in super super low,
multi-decade lows. Let's see if we get a
repeat act in just a moment into that
data. In the bond market, twos 10s 30s
yield shaping up as follows. Yields on a
two-year dropping by two to three basis
points, down two on 10s as well, 4.33.
Let's get to those claims. Still low,
Mike McKee has more. Hey Mike.
Still low, John. Good morning from San
Francisco. Claims come in at 200,000
even, up from a revised 190,000. So
still low, but we moved away from the
record low level. The continuing claims
number though drops
1,766,000
from 1,000,000
776,000.
So we are seeing
some improvement in the longer-term
claims picture, but it's all basically
tells you that the labor market is
stable, sort of the same message we got
out of the JOLTS
data the other day. And of course
tomorrow we'll get the payrolls data.
Also getting a productivity at this
point and unit level productivity for
the month for the first quarter, rather,
is non-farm productivity is up at an
8/10 pace. That's down from 1.6% in the
fourth quarter. Of course GDP was
higher. Unit labor costs to fall though
from
4.6% to 2.3%.
So productivity having some
benefits there, but the issue of course
and I feel being in San Francisco I
should talk tech.
We're not seeing a lot of productivity
yet in the numbers from AI. And most of
the folks on the Fed don't think we're
going to see it for a little while. Even
if Kevin Warsh thinks that's
justification for cutting rates, that's
not what we're hearing from members of
the Open Market Committee right now.
Mike McKee on tour. This will be a good
one, Mike. Looking forward to the
conversation with Mary Daly a little bit
later this morning, the San Francisco
Fed President and Mike McKee catching up
with each other around noon Eastern
time. So that's in the morning in San
Francisco. Mike, just give us a flavor
of what you and you and Mary are going
to be discussing, particularly given the
additional pushback we've seen to the
easing bias earlier on this morning.
Yeah, Susan Collins from the Boston Fed
said she would have joined if she were a
voter this year those who dissented. So,
we definitely want to find out what Mary
Daly is thinking. You had a analyst on
earlier this week who said Daly's one of
the most important voices because she's
been one of the biggest doves. So, if
she's willing to hold off, then that it
makes it even harder for Kevin Warsh. We
talked with John Williams earlier this
week and the New York Fed president also
said that what they're doing now, while
it's not hard forward guidance, it is
forward guidance in the sense that it's
telling people what they think the most
likely path for monetary policy is given
the economy.
And all of these people are suggesting
that maybe Kevin Warsh's idea of getting
rid of forward guidance isn't going to
take hold. That's what Claudia Sahm is
writing in to tell us this morning. She
thinks Susan Collins made that point
that Warsh is not on board with what the
rest of the committee are thinking at
this point. Mike McKee, thank you, sir.
Looking forward to that conversation
with the San Francisco Fed president,
Mary Daly, later on today at about 12:30
Eastern time. Think about what we're
arguing over here. Just a couple of
words in the statement. Something like
additional easing, additional
adjustments may be required. Don't even
use the word easing. Additional
adjustments may be required. That's what
the argument at the Federal Reserve is
right now. Well, and it actually has a
pretty significant economic implication,
which is is this still a Fed that has
room to cut or are we at neutral and
potentially even overly easy based on
the
on the strength that we're seeing in the
underlying economy. My question is is
the initial jobless claims metric
broken? Are we actually gleaning
anything from this or is this really
telling us just how good things are that
there really aren't that many people who
are filing for jobless
>> So, two questions. I'll start with the
second one. Don't know. On the first
question, I certainly think we're
redefining what dovishness is at the
Federal Reserve right now. At the start
of this year, it was cutting interest
rates and now three, four, five months
in, it's just not hiking and holding on
to the easing bars and that's the fight
now for the doves. And over to you Kevin
Warsh. And here is the key issue for
markets. How much is the market pricing
in and really dovish Kevin Warsh that's
going to come in on a mission to cut
rates and how much is this market
appreciating that this person might be
constrained by a committee and frankly
by economic data that is not pointing
toward any kind of easing.
>> Can you rely on claims? Someone far more
better positioned than I am to answer
that question, Nela Richardson of ADP
joins us now for more. Nela, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Before we get into claims, I want to
talk about ADP.
Encouraging signs here. Are we actually
starting to see a pick up in this labor
market?
>> You know, last year there was a trend
and it was clear. It was all downward in
terms of monthly growth and that was a
trend that has been going on for three
years. This year we're actually starting
to see some green shoots of dynamism.
The stagnant low higher low fire market
is starting to break and thaw a little
bit.
The issue is that there's no clear trend
yet. So yes, there's some green shoots.
We're watching for a trend to develop.
>> say we've broken the old trend? Can I go
that far?
>> I think so. I think so. But we're we're
we're trending at a lower rate but we're
not trending downward. So that's a very
important distinction in 2026 that we
didn't see in 2025.
>> Let's take that dynamism. Are we seeing
wages pick up as we get that churn pick
up in the labor market?
>> Okay, so here's the rub. It's a solid
labor market. We saw 109,000
private sector jobs in April created.
That is the biggest number we tracked in
15 months since January 2025. Here's the
rub. The jobs that are being put into
this economy are part-time and low wage
and mostly tied to health care. And so
the jobs that were replacing are not as
high paying and don't work as many hours
as the jobs that have been lost. And so
I chair a lot of things. I chair that
low initial jobless claims and I chair
the continuing claims number going down.
That's so critical. But we still have to
be clear-eyed and as my oldest son would
say, not have any cap. I don't know if I
used that right. About the reality of
this jobs market where the job creation
is just not as strong as we'd like it
given all the AI productivity
investment.
>> it's no cap. I don't think that he would
say don't have any cap. I've embarrassed
him in like the last 30 seconds.
>> fine. But moving But I'm just To build
on what you're talking about,
there is a feeling that there is some
strength in the numbers, but it doesn't
seem like it necessarily is something
that would be at risk of a wage price
spiral. Will the idea of a robust labor
market constrain the Fed's ability to
cut rates and potentially push them to
hike or is this something independent of
that that is secular to the health care
industry and to job and to jobs that
previously were held by say a population
of immigrants? Yeah.
A wage price spiral was never a threat
in all the inflation scenario when
economists were really laser focused on
this occurrence happening, this
theoretical construct of a wage price
spiral, it never materialized and is
even less of a factor now. Yes, there is
wage growth stability. Yes, it's at a
level higher than what we saw before the
pandemic and yes, there are some clear
labor shortages, a lot of them tied to
immigration or aging demographics. Still
not enough. Still not enough to lead
workers to top out over inflation. And
so for me, that's a problem. If we have
some
inflationary pressure and pretty stable
wage growth, but not enough to keep up
with energy prices or higher food
prices, then that's a problem for
workers.
>> Which is the reason why you're seeing it
on the margins and why people keep
talking about the K-shaped getting wider
and wider.
The jobless indicator, I'm just
wondering, initial jobless claims, is it
relevant anymore? Has it just
essentially been rendered
just an arbitrary 200,000 plus or minus
some? It's my favorite broken record.
Repeat, repeat, repeat. I don't want to
see that number go up.
>> Okay, but is it is an indication of
anything or is this just essentially
someone entering a number that's just
been automatically generated? You know,
I can't answer that with any
confirmation. It is a signal. Is it a
flat signal right now? Yes. Is it
because the economy is doing pretty
good? I I hope so, but I don't know for
certain. So, it's a question worth
asking and we should ask as an economics
profession, as people who track that
data, is it giving us the same signal
now as it has in the past? A lot of
things are changing. We see that the
labor participation rate is changing.
Labor supply is changing. We have all
these investments in technology
changing. Maybe that number is fine.
It's just not giving us the signal it
has historically. We've seen some
layoffs though at big tech companies and
a lot of them are saying this is because
of artificial intelligence. You're
tracking mom-and-pop shops. Are they
insulated from that?
They're not insulated from macro trends.
But yeah, they're they're not going to
be the early adopters of frontier
technology. And mom-and-pops, you know,
the industry organization is geared
towards construction jobs. It's geared
towards like home health care aides and
service sector jobs. So, service meaning
in-person services rather than in front
of a computer service. And so, yes,
there is some sense that they they have
a moat, the small firm around them when
it comes to AI because the business is
different and they're not again going to
be the early adopters of technology.
>> like small businesses are having
somewhat of a renaissance? Definitely.
And this is because of agility. When
everything's changing in the labor
market, small firms are agile. They can
hire that part-time worker. They can
hire that person that was retired but
has skills and wants to to stay attached
to the labor market. They can free flow
in a way that larger firms are are more
constrained to doing and that's what
we're seeing in the data. They're
actually using their smallness as an
advancement. I'll go a step further here
cuz it's small business week. Small
firms are the future. If AI delivers on
its promise, which is scale, it's not
just efficiency. It's being able to do
more, produce more, create more, and
innovate more. You no longer have to be
a big firm to do big things. You can be
a small firm and scale. So, I think
small firms will grow their big
footprint. They're the engine of growth
already. I think they're they only
become more important over time.
>> I'm going to run with the optimism. I'm
going to run with it, Nita. Appreciate
it. Thank you. Nita Richardson there of
ADP, a better conversation about the
American labor market.
>> Yeah, and we're seeing it in the
numbers. I mean, having a dead signal at
200,000 in terms of the initial jobless
claims is wonderful. If it really is
giving us a signal, one viewer, and I
think this is really interesting, points
out that the jobless claims could be at
this low level because of the higher
number of retirees on a weekly basis.
It's also a skewing the quits rate. I'm
going to have to wrap my head around
exactly how that is featuring into this.
But, we do see a big demographic shift.
A lot of people are leaving the
workforce because they can on all of
their stocks that they have gained so
much on.
>> No envy there whatsoever.
>> And their
low mortgages that they've gotten at
these really low prices for their homes.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. They can retire. But, Nita you're
all right, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
>> Promise not a boomer. No, but low
mortgage rate. Sure. I mean, often brag
about that.
>> Yeah.
Come on. It's the one thing I can brag
about. Let me.
True. I'd be bragging, too.
We need an estimate for payrolls
tomorrow, 65K in our survey. The highest
140, the lowest -15. The jobs market
center stage tomorrow morning, 8:30
Eastern time. Let's give you an update
on news worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Yohara Halima. Hi,
Yohara. Hi, John. Recapping the data we
just got, jobless claims coming in at
200,000 last week. That's lower than
estimates for 205,000, but up a lot from
last week's historic low. Continuing
claims falling, coming in at 1.76
million, also below consensus.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of Shake
Shack plunging more than 20% in the
pre-market after the burger chain missed
first quarter expectations. The company
pointing to higher beef costs and a
stretch of bad weather weighing on
results. Even so, Shake Shack isn't
raising prices, thank you, and is
sticking with its full year outlook.
And in sports, the Knicks taking a two
and oh lead over the 6ers in the second
round of the NBA playoffs. Three Knicks
players recording 20 plus points. Philly
missing its star player, Joel Embiid,
due to injury. Game three tips off in
Philadelphia tomorrow night. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohara, thank
you. Appreciate the update. Up next on
the program, Cameron Dawson of NewEdge
Wealth with stocks gearing up for
another record day. Plus, Danny's back
with your morning movers. Another check
on Citi falling, down about 1.6%. We'll
get to the why in just a moment.
Mag 7 is no longer sort of the uber
focus of investors. I mean, the best Mag
7 performer this year is ranked 72nd in
the S&P 500 this year. We had had a
broadening out in the market. I think
those rotations are going to continue.
The churn and rotation under the
surface, I think, tells a fuller story
of what's going on in the market. That
was the brilliant Liz Ann Sonders of
Charles Schwab joining the program a
little bit earlier on this hour. Setting
the stage for the open about the open
about is about 44 minutes away with
equity futures elevated and up by 2/10
of 1% on the S&P. Similar move on the
Nasdaq. All-time highs coming into this
morning, adding some weight to that
rally. In the commodity market, helping
out crude lower. Now loud down by 5% on
WTI and just about holding on to 90.
Brent crude down by a similar amount and
just about holding on to 96, well south
of triple digits.
>> People want to move on from the story of
the Middle East and focus on earnings,
which have been coming in robustly both
in the tech side as well as on the
consumer side. We're talking about
McDonald's,
beating expectations on earnings. We're
talking about DoorDash beating
expectations. We're talking about all of
these consumer brands, even Uber. People
just spending on discretionary items
despite the fears of inflation.
>> Consumers are still resilient even with
$4.50 a gallon on the national average
and going up. It was up today. What I
find interesting is it feels like
there's a lot of calm right now between
Washington and Tehran as we are waiting
for them to respond to this one-pager.
You have the Iranian president actually
meeting with the Ayatollah for 2 and 1/2
hours, according to the Press TV. So,
there is some movement in terms of
conversations happening in Iran and I
would think we would get that
announcement coming today.
>> Let's see if we can make some progress
here. With that moving crude, push it
into the bond market. Yields down across
the curve. Two's down by three basis
points, call it four. 10's down by
three. 4.32 on 10's this morning. That's
how the stage is set cross asset. Let's
get you some single names and morning
movers. Danny Burger has more. Hey,
Danny. Hey, John. Citi in focus this
morning with their investor day. There
was a lot of high hopes for this company
given it just reported earnings that saw
returns at a 5-year high. Instead, they
revealed Uh, their return on tangible
common equity targets and it missed
expectations. They see somewhere between
14%
just to put in perspective. JP Morgan
when they reported it was about 20% for
2025. Uh, analysts at UBS say that the
market was hoping for 15% and higher and
said that seems at the top end of their
estimates. They did though authorize a
$30 billion stock buyback uh, in a
multi-year program. Elsewhere on
earnings, Lisa you mentioned this really
strong showing from McDonald's. Their
global same store sales rose quarter.
Uh, it rose in the quarter year over
year. Last quarter it was a decline so
they were able to fight that. They said
it was their value-driven menu, their
big arch burger, all of those popular
with consumers uh, up 2.7% but the
consumer earnings haven't been bright
everywhere. Check out what's happening
with Whirlpool down a whopping 21 and a
third percent. They cut their estimates
for where they're going to this year in
half. JP Morgan says that raw material
costs are a lot higher from them but the
company statement was really something
to behold. They said that this industry
is in a recession level uh, kind of
environment. They say it's due to the
war in Iran that consumer sentiment took
a hard turn in February and March. It's
an issue for them again saying that
things look like a recession to them.
John.
>> Donnie, thank you. That is a different
story. That's notable. Feels like an
outlier right now but it's notable.
>> It also is tied to the housing cycle and
how much people are actually moving and
all of the goods that they did during
the pandemic. Remember we're in these
sort of strange cycles that have also
been foisted upon us from a pandemic no
travel to pandemic travel etc.
>> People stuck with 3% mortgages and not
moving houses and stuff.
>> Yeah, but initially they were buying
dishwashers And then
>> they be like renovating and having it
refurbished?
>> part of the 2023.
>> Need to push them out of the houses.
Yeah.
Get them moving again.
Why are you trying to make me go?
Really?
I'm trying to make you move. Come on.
Equity futures right now the S&P
positive by 2/10 of 1%. Your next 24
hours looks like this. This is what the
trading diary is giving to us. At 11:15
Eastern time, we'll hear from the
president. He's meeting with the
president of Brazil. Some tension
between those two countries recently, so
look out for some of that. I'd also say
the more important deadline, of course,
is whether we hear from the Iranians and
what they say to Pakistani mediators in
the next 24 hours. Also today, lots of
Fed speak, Hammack, Daly, Kashkari, and
Williams daily as well.
Catching up with Mike McKee, so look out
for that, too. After the closing bell,
earnings from CoreWeave and Cloudflare.
On Friday, tomorrow morning, the main
event, of course, is not YouGov metrics.
the payroll support. Look out for the
payroll support. YouGov consumer
confidence right now as an indicator.
Largely useless at the moment for a lot
of people, at least from a financial
market perspective. If jobless claims
are raising questions, you know that you
University of Michigan is essentially
all but forgotten. So, yes, a lot of
people are using this as a political
ball more than anything else.
>> Cameron Dawson of YouGov Wealth writes
in the following, "Respect the trend,
but don't ignore the risks." Let's talk
about the risks right now. Cameron joins
us for more. Cameron, good morning. Good
morning.
>> What are the dominant risks for you?
Well, I think the fact that this market
is very much in an uptrend, which we
think should be respected, but this
uptrend is being driven by a narrow
cohort of names, which, of course, we
are in an earnings boom, but that
earnings boom is narrow as well. So,
even though we saw a new high yesterday,
that big bold beautiful new high, only
55% of names are above their 50-day
moving average, and you actually have
over 30% of the names in the S&P 500
that are below their March 30 lows. So,
it's not to say that this is an uptrend
that you should fight. It's just to say
that you should have risk management in
mind because a lot of this upside is
being driven by highly parabolic moves
in a small cohort of names. What does
risk management mean?
Risk management means likely taking some
money off the table, trimming some
winners. If you look at the
semiconductor index, it's now trading at
57% above its 200-day moving average. We
haven't been that overbought, that
extended above its 200 days since going
back to the early 2000s. Now, of course,
March of 2000, we hit 98% above its
200-day moving average, so things could
get even sillier, but as the saying
goes, nobody got poor by taking gains.
At this point, people are looking for
the next catalyst. It does feel like
we've all been
having a case of ADHD with all of the
headlines considering the fact that they
seem to be whipsawing the market, the
perception, etc. What's the big next
catalyst? Is it jobs? Is it the election
cycle? Is it the hantavirus? Oh, well,
hopefully not the hantavirus. I'd say
the election cycle is really interesting
because usually midterm election years
carry the highest volatility and the
lowest return. So, if you look at the
bullish expectations for total S&P 500
returns by the time we get to the end of
the year, that would be very, very
different than what we would normally
see in a midterm election. I think the
thing to watch with jobs is if we get
another hot jobs print, are we talking
about more upside to yields? We saw the
2-year yield get close to 4% the 10-year
yield get close to 4 and 1/2% and does
that start to become a challenge for a
market that is trading at
ever-increasing high valuations, as well
as put downward pressure on some of
those cyclical areas of the market, like
housing, which is likely one of the
reasons why Whirlpool is so weak today.
>> You talk about yellow flags. What are
the yellow flags you're watching? I
would say something like financials
trading below their 200-day moving
average. That's certainly something that
we don't want to see. Financials at a
new relative low. We want them
participating in this rally as a sign of
good cyclicality. I'd also flag equal
weight discretionary versus staples.
That has been pricing in some of this
consumer pressure that we were seeing
from higher oil prices. The important
thing will be if we do see oil prices
continue to moderate, do we see that do
we see that ratio start to rebound,
which would be a very important cyclical
indicator for this market.
>> so much excitement about the cyclical
bounce at the start of the year. Do you
think we've upended that or just delayed
it?
We never saw much evidence that it was
coming. Yes, maybe if you looked at the
PMIs, you could see some signs of an
acceleration, but the reality is is that
PMIs just like things like you Mish have
been very very poor indicators this
cycle. You saw some bounce in things
like transport, some cyclical areas, but
in many ways that was a very last Shelby
first kind of trade. Look at the first
two months of this year, the two leading
sectors were energy and consumer
staples. They weren't leading because
they were pricing in some kind of
expectation of a war or some kind of
turn down in the consumer. They were
leading because they were the worst
names over the last three years. So, it
really was just a rotation from the the
worst into the best. And I think what's
interesting is do we start to see a bid
for that broadening outcome back again
if this war is is truly going to
moderate. And if that doesn't happen,
that certainly could be that we continue
to have this very narrow leadership.
>> How strange would it be if we saw a
rotation into energy after the
straight-a-four months issue was
addressed? Well, I mean these stocks
have not performed well through
>> done nothing through the war at all.
>> Yeah, look, I think that maybe you could
maybe make an argument that there's some
kind of infrastructure build out that
could benefit some of these names. That
you could argue that it could be
supportive of earnings, but I think that
energy still has a right and a place in
a portfolio as a geopolitical hedge
simply because there were a couple days
where energy was the only thing that was
up, which is nice as a buffer in
portfolios.
>> It had a start in March and then it
faded really quickly. So strange the
performance of that sector. I know they
had a really powerful start to the year.
I get that. But you would think that
certain parts of that particular energy
industry would have really taken off and
it just wasn't the case.
>> Yeah, especially given that their
earnings were significantly higher than
expected as a result of higher energy
prices. At the same time, not
necessarily investing in pumping more
and they did have infrastructure damage.
So, people kept coming on and saying,
"Well, it was the rally before. It was
the infrastructure costs." Let's see if
now we start to see a shift. Cameron
Dawson, it's good to see you. Good to
see you. Thanks for being here. Cameron
Dawson there of NewEdge Wealth. Coming
up tomorrow, we'll catch up with Chris
Verrone of Strategas, Priya Misra of JP
Morgan, Michael Collins of PGM, and
Francis Donald of RBC. The jobs report
tomorrow morning, 8:30 Eastern Time,
full coverage right here on Bloomberg
TV. From New York City this morning,
good morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.